Abram 2 Абрам m Russian, Georgian
Russian and Georgian form of Abraham.
Abrasha Абраша m Russian (Rare)
Russian diminutive of Abraham.
Adam Адам m English, French, German, Polish, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Romanian, Catalan, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, Georgian, Biblical, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek, Biblical Hebrew
This is the Hebrew word for "man". It could be ultimately derived from Hebrew אדם ('adam) meaning "to be red", referring to the ruddy colour of human skin, or from Akkadian adamu meaning "to make".... [more]
Adrian Адриан m English, Romanian, Polish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Russian
Form of Hadrianus (see Hadrian) used in several languages. Several saints and six popes have borne this name, including the only English pope, Adrian IV, and the only Dutch pope, Adrian VI. As an English name, it has been in use since the Middle Ages, though it was not popular until modern times.
Aelita Аэлита f Literature, Russian, Latvian
Created by Russian author Aleksey Tolstoy for his science fiction novel Aelita (1923), where it belongs to a Martian princess. In the book, the name is said to mean "starlight seen for the last time" in the Martian language.
Afanasiy Афанасий m Russian
Russian form of Athanasius.
Afanasy Афанасий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Афанасий (see Afanasiy).
Afonya Афоня m Russian
Diminutive of Afanasiy.
Agafon Агафон m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Agathon.
Agafya Агафья f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Agatha.
Agata Агата f Italian, Polish, Slovene, Russian, Croatian, Serbian, Swedish
Form of Agatha in various languages.
Aglaya Аглая f Russian
Russian form of Aglaia.
Agnessa Агнесса f Russian
Russian form of Agnes.
Agnia Агния f Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Агния (see Agniya).
Agniya Агния f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Agnes.
Agrafena Аграфена f Russian
Russian form of Agrippina.
Akilina Акилина f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of the Roman name Aquilina, a feminine derivative of Aquila.
Akim Аким m Russian
Russian form of Joachim.
Aksinia Аксинья f Bulgarian, Russian
Bulgarian form of Xenia, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Аксинья (see Aksinya).
Aksinya Аксинья f Russian
Variant of Kseniya.
Akulina Акулина f Russian
Variant of Akilina.
Albert Альберт m English, German, French, Catalan, Polish, Russian, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Romanian, Hungarian, Germanic
From the Germanic name Adalbert meaning "noble and bright", composed of the elements adal "noble" and beraht "bright". This name was common among medieval German royalty. The Normans introduced it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Æþelbeorht. Though it became rare in England by the 17th century, it was repopularized in the 19th century by the German-born Prince Albert, the husband of Queen Victoria.... [more]
Albina Альбина f Russian, Ukrainian, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Slovene, Polish, German, Lithuanian, Belarusian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Albinus. This was the name of a few early saints, including a 3rd-century martyr from Caesarea.
Aleks Алекс m & f Russian, Ukrainian, Slovene, Polish, Armenian
Short form of Aleksey, Aleksandr or Aleksandra.
Aleksandr Александр m Russian, Armenian, Ukrainian
Russian and Armenian form of Alexander. This name was borne by the 19th-century Russian poet Aleksandr Pushkin.
Aleksandra Александра f Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Serbian, Bulgarian, Slovene, Croatian, Macedonian, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Georgian
Form of Alexandra in several languages.
Aleksandrina Александрина f Russian, Bulgarian
Diminutive of Aleksandra.
Aleksei Алексей m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Алексей (see Aleksey).
Aleksey Алексей m Russian
Russian form of Alexis. This was the name of a 17th-century czar of Russia.
Alesya Алеся f Belarusian, Russian
Diminutive of Aliaksandra or Aleksandra.
Alevtina Алевтина f Russian
Possibly a variant of Valentina.
Alex Алекс m & f English, Dutch, German, French, Portuguese, Italian, Romanian, Greek, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Hungarian, Czech, Russian
Short form of Alexander, Alexandra and other names beginning with Alex.
Alexandr Александр m Czech, Russian
Czech form of Alexander, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Александр (see Aleksandr).
Alexandra Александра f English, German, Dutch, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Greek, Portuguese, Romanian, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Catalan, Spanish, Italian, Russian, Ukrainian, Ancient Greek, Greek Mythology
Feminine form of Alexander. In Greek mythology this was a Mycenaean epithet of the goddess Hera, and an alternate name of Cassandra. It was borne by several early Christian saints, and also by the wife of Nicholas II, the last czar of Russia. She was from Germany and had the birth name Alix, but was renamed Александра (Aleksandra) upon joining the Russian Church.
Alexei Алексей m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Алексей (see Aleksey).
Alexey Алексей m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Алексей (see Aleksey).
Alexsandr Александр m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Александр (see Aleksandr).
Alik Алик m Russian
Diminutive of Aleksandr, Albert and other names beginning with the same sound.
Alina Алина f Romanian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Slovene, German, Italian, Spanish
Short form of Adelina, Albina and names that end in alina.
Aliona Алёна f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Алёна or Ukrainian Альона (see Alyona).
Alisa Алиса f Russian, Ukrainian, Bosnian, Finnish, Georgian
Form of Alice used in several languages.
Alla Алла f Russian, Ukrainian
Meaning unknown, possibly of German origin.
Allochka Аллочка f Russian
Russian diminutive of Alla.
Alya 2 Аля f Russian
Diminutive of Aleksandra, Albina and other names beginning with Ал.
Alyona Алёна f Russian, Ukrainian
Originally a Russian diminutive of Yelena. It is now used independently.
Alyonka Алёнка f Russian
Diminutive of Alyona.
Alyosha Алёша m Russian
Diminutive of Aleksey.
Amaliya Амалия f Russian
Russian form of Amalia.
Amvrosiy Амвросий m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Ambrosius (see Ambrose).
Anastas Анастас m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Anastasius.
Anastasia Анастасия f Greek, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, English, Spanish, Italian, Georgian, Ancient Greek
Feminine form of Anastasius. This was the name of a 4th-century Dalmatian saint who was martyred during the persecutions of the Roman emperor Diocletian. Due to her, the name has been common in Eastern Orthodox Christianity (in various spellings). As an English name it has been in use since the Middle Ages. A famous bearer was the youngest daughter of the last Russian tsar Nicholas II, who was rumoured to have escaped the execution of her family in 1918.
Anastasiy Анастасий m Russian (Archaic), Bulgarian (Archaic)
Older Russian and Bulgarian form of Anastasius.
Anastasiya Анастасия f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Anastasia. This name was borne by the wife of the Russian czar Ivan the Terrible.
Anatoli Анатолий m Russian, Ukrainian, Georgian
Alternate transcription of Russian Анатолий or Ukrainian Анатолій (see Anatoliy), as well as the Georgian form.
Anatoliy Анатолий m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Anatolius.
Anatoly Анатолий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Анатолий (see Anatoliy).
Andrei Андрей m Romanian, Russian, Bulgarian, Belarusian, Old Church Slavic
Romanian form of Andrew, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Андрей or Belarusian Андрэй (see Andrey).
Andrey Андрей m Russian, Bulgarian, Belarusian
Russian, Bulgarian and Belarusian form of Andrew.
Anfisa Анфиса f Russian
Russian form of the Greek name Ἀνθοῦσα (Anthousa), which was derived from Greek ἄνθος (anthos) meaning "flower". This was the name of a 9th-century Byzantine saint.
Angela Ангела f English, Italian, German, Dutch, Romanian, Slovene, Slovak, Russian, Macedonian, Greek, Late Roman
Feminine form of Angelus (see Angel). As an English name, it came into use in the 18th century.
Angelina Ангелина f Italian, English, Russian, Bulgarian, Serbian, German, Dutch, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek, Armenian
Latinate diminutive of Angela. A famous bearer is American actress Angelina Jolie (1975-).
Ania Аня f Polish, Russian
Polish diminutive of Anna, and an alternate transcription of Russian Аня (see Anya).
Anisim Анисим m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Onesimus.
Anjelika Анжелика f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Анжелика (see Anzhelika).
Anna Анна f English, Italian, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Greek, Hungarian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Armenian, Icelandic, Faroese, Catalan, Occitan, Breton, Scottish Gaelic, Biblical, Old Church Slavic, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek
Form of Channah (see Hannah) used in the Greek and Latin Old Testament. Many later Old Testament translations, including the English, use the Hannah spelling instead of Anna. The name appears briefly in the New Testament belonging to a prophetess who recognized Jesus as the Messiah. It was a popular name in the Byzantine Empire from an early date, and in the Middle Ages it became common among Western Christians due to veneration of Saint Anna (usually known as Saint Anne in English), the name traditionally assigned to the mother of the Virgin Mary.... [more]
Annushka Аннушка f Russian
Russian diminutive of Anna.
Anton Антон m German, Russian, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Dutch, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Slovene, Slovak, Macedonian, Croatian, Romanian, Estonian, Finnish, Georgian, English
Form of Antonius (see Anthony) used in various languages.
Antonina Антонина f Italian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Antoninus.
Anya Аня f Russian
Russian diminutive of Anna.
Anzhela Анжела f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian and Bulgarian form of Angela.
Anzhelika Анжелика f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Angelica.
Anzhelina Анжелина f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Angelina.
Apollinariya Аполлинария f Russian
Russian feminine form of Apollinaris.
Ardalion Ардалион m Late Greek, Georgian (Rare), Russian (Rare)
Probably derived from Greek ἀρδάλιον (ardalion) meaning "water pot". This was the name of a 4th-century saint and martyr from Asia Minor.
Ariadna Ариадна f Spanish, Catalan, Russian, Polish
Spanish, Catalan, Russian and Polish form of Ariadne.
Arina Арина f Russian
Russian variant of Irina.
Arisha Ариша f Russian
Diminutive of Arina.
Aristarkh Аристарх m Russian
Russian form of Aristarchus.
Arkadi Аркадий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Аркадий (see Arkadiy).
Arkadiy Аркадий m Russian
Russian form of Arkadios. This is the name of one of the main characters in Ivan Turgenev's Fathers and Sons (1862).
Arkady Аркадий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Аркадий (see Arkadiy).
Arkhip Архип m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Archippos.
Arseni Арсений m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Арсений (see Arseniy).
Arseniy Арсений m Russian
Russian form of Arsenios.
Arseny Арсений m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Арсений (see Arseniy).
Artem Артём m Ukrainian, Russian
Ukrainian form of Artemios. It is also an alternate transcription of Russian Артём (see Artyom).
Artemi Артемий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Артемий (see Artemiy).
Artemiy Артемий m Russian
Russian variant form of Artemios.
Artemy Артемий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Артемий (see Artemiy).
Artur Артур m Portuguese, Galician, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, German, Estonian, Swedish, Albanian, Armenian
Form of Arthur in several languages.
Artyom Артём m Russian
Russian form of Artemios.
Assol Ассоль f Russian (Rare), Literature
From the 1923 Russian novel Scarlet Sails by Alexander Grin, adapted into a 1961 Soviet movie. In the story, Assol is a young girl who is told by a prophetic old man that she will one day marry a prince. The meaning of the name is not uncertain, but it has been suggested that it was inspired by the Russian question а соль (a sol) meaning "and the salt?".
Asya 1 Ася f Russian, Bulgarian
Diminutive of Anastasiya or Aleksandra.
Avdey Авдей m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Obadiah.
Avdotya Авдотья f Russian
Russian form of Eudocia.
Avenir Авенир m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Abner.
Avgust Август m Slovene, Russian
Slovene and Russian form of Augustus.
Avgusta Августа f Slovene, Russian
Slovene and Russian feminine form of Augustus.
Avksentiy Авксентий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Auxentios.
Avrora Аврора f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Aurora.
Azaliya Азалия f Russian
Russian cognate of Azalea.
Benedikt Бенедикт m German, Icelandic, Czech, Russian (Rare)
Form of Benedictus (see Benedict) in several languages.
Bogdan Богдан m Polish, Russian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Romanian, Medieval Slavic
Means "given by God" from the Slavic elements bogu "god" and dan "given".
Boleslav Болеслав m Czech, Russian (Archaic), Medieval Slavic
Czech and Russian form of Bolesław.
Boleslava Болеслава f Czech (Rare), Russian (Rare)
Czech and Russian feminine form of Bolesław.
Boris Борис m Bulgarian, Russian, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Czech, Slovak, Georgian, German, French
From a Bulgar Turkic name, also recorded as Bogoris, perhaps meaning "short" or "wolf" or "snow leopard". It was borne by the 9th-century Boris I of Bulgaria who converted his realm to Christianity and is thus regarded as a saint in the Orthodox Church. To the north in Kievan Rus it was the name of another saint, a son of Vladimir the Great who was murdered with his brother Gleb in the 11th century. His mother may have been Bulgarian.... [more]
Borislav Борислав m Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Russian, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic element borti "battle" combined with slava "glory".
Borislava Борислава f Bulgarian, Serbian, Russian (Rare)
Feminine form of Borislav.
Borya Боря m Russian
Diminutive of Boris.
Bronislav Бронислав m Czech, Slovak, Russian, Medieval Slavic
Czech and Russian form of Bronisław.
Bronislava Бронислава f Czech, Slovak, Russian
Czech, Slovak and Russian feminine form of Bronisław.
Daniil Даниил m Russian, Belarusian, Greek
Russian, Belarusian and Greek form of Daniel.
Danila 1 Данила m Russian
Russian variant form of Daniel.
Daria Дарья f Italian, Polish, Romanian, English, Croatian, Russian, Late Roman
Feminine form of Darius. Saint Daria was a 3rd-century woman who was martyred with her husband Chrysanthus under the Roman emperor Numerian. It has never been a particularly common English given name. As a Russian name, it is more commonly transcribed Darya.
Dariy Дарий m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Darius.
Darya 1 Дарья f Russian, Belarusian, Ukrainian
Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian form of Daria.
Dasha Даша f Russian
Russian diminutive of Darya 1.
David Давид m English, Hebrew, French, Scottish, Welsh, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Czech, Slovene, Russian, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Romanian, Biblical, Biblical Latin
From the Hebrew name דָּוִד (Dawid), which was derived from Hebrew דּוֹד (dod) meaning "beloved" or "uncle". David was the second and greatest of the kings of Israel, ruling in the 10th century BC. Several stories about him are told in the Old Testament, including his defeat of Goliath, a giant Philistine. According to the New Testament, Jesus was descended from him.... [more]
Demid Демид m Russian
Russian form of Diomedes.
Demyan Демьян m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Damian.
Denis Денис m French, Russian, English, German, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Romanian, Croatian, Albanian
From Denys or Denis, the medieval French forms of Dionysius. Saint Denis was a 3rd-century missionary to Gaul and the first bishop of Paris. He was martyred by decapitation, after which legend says he picked up his own severed head and walked for a distance while preaching a sermon. He is credited with converting the Gauls to Christianity and is considered the patron saint of France.... [more]
Diana Диана f English, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Catalan, German, Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Estonian, Lithuanian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Armenian, Georgian, Roman Mythology
Means "divine, goddesslike", a derivative of dia or diva meaning "goddess". It is ultimately related to the same Indo-European root *dyew- found in Zeus. Diana was a Roman goddess of the moon, hunting, forests and childbirth, often identified with the Greek goddess Artemis.... [more]
Dima 2 Дима m Russian, Georgian
Diminutive of Dmitriy.
Dimitri Димитрий m Russian, Georgian, French
Russian variant of Dmitriy, using the Church Slavic spelling, as well as the Georgian form.
Dimka Димка m Russian
Diminutive of Dmitriy.
Dina 1 Дина f Norwegian, Danish, Swedish, Latvian, Russian, Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek
Variant of Dinah, and also the form used in the Greek and Latin Old Testament.
Diomid Диомид m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Diomedes.
Dmitri Дмитрий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Дмитрий (see Dmitriy).
Dmitrii Дмитрий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Дмитрий (see Dmitriy).
Dmitriy Дмитрий m Russian
Russian form of Demetrius. A famous bearer was Dmitriy Mendeleev (1834-1907), the Russian chemist who devised the periodic table.
Dmitry Дмитрий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Дмитрий (see Dmitriy).
Dominika Доминика f Slovak, Czech, Polish, Hungarian, Slovene, Russian
Feminine form of Dominic.
Dorofei Дорофей m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Дорофей (see Dorofey).
Dorofey Дорофей m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Dorotheos (see Dorothea).
Dosifey Досифей m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Dositheos.
Dunya Дуня f Russian
Diminutive of Avdotya.
Dunyasha Дуняша f Russian
Diminutive of Avdotya.
Eduard Эдуард m German, Russian, Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Catalan, Dutch, Estonian, Romanian, Georgian, Armenian
Form of Edward in various languages.
Efrem Ефрем m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Ефрем (see Yefrem).
Ekaterina Екатерина f Bulgarian, Macedonian, Russian
Bulgarian and Macedonian form of Katherine, and an alternate transcription of Russian Екатерина (see Yekaterina).
Elena Елена f Italian, Spanish, Romanian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovak, Lithuanian, Estonian, Finnish, Russian, Greek, German, English, Medieval Slavic
Form of Helen used in various languages, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Елена (see Yelena).
Eleonora Элеонора f Italian, German, Swedish, Latvian, Dutch, Polish, Bulgarian, Russian, Ukrainian, Greek
Form of Eleanor in several languages.
Elizaveta Елизавета f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Елизавета (see Yelizaveta).
Elmira 3 Эльмира f Russian (Rare)
Contraction of Russian электрификация мира (elektrifikatsiya mira) meaning "electrification of the world". This name was created by Communist parents who were eager to reject traditional names.
Elvira Эльвира f Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, German, Dutch, Swedish, Hungarian, Russian
Spanish form of a Visigothic name, recorded from the 10th century in forms such as Geloyra or Giluira. It is of uncertain meaning, possibly composed of the Gothic element gails "happy" or gails "spear" combined with wers "friendly, agreeable, true". The name was borne by members of the royal families of León and Castille. This is also the name of a character in Mozart's opera Don Giovanni (1787).
Emil Эмиль m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Romanian, Bulgarian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Russian, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Hungarian, Icelandic, English
From the Roman family name Aemilius, which was derived from Latin aemulus meaning "rival".
Emiliya Эмилия f Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Russian
Bulgarian, Ukrainian and Russian feminine form of Aemilius (see Emily).
Emmanuil Эммануил m Russian
Russian form of Emmanuel.
Erast Эраст m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Erastus.
Ermolai Ермолай m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Ермолай (see Yermolay).
Esfir Эсфирь f Russian
Russian form of Esther.
Eva Ева f Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, English, Czech, Slovak, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Estonian, Danish, Icelandic, Faroese, Romanian, Greek, Slovene, Bulgarian, Croatian, Russian, Georgian, Armenian, Old Church Slavic, Biblical Latin
Form of Eve used in various languages. This form is used in the Latin translation of the New Testament, while Hava is used in the Latin Old Testament. The name appears in Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel Uncle Tom's Cabin (1852) belonging to the character Little Eva, whose real name is in fact Evangeline.... [more]
Evdokiya Евдокия f Bulgarian, Russian
Bulgarian form of Eudocia, and an alternate transcription of Russian Евдокия (see Yevdokiya).
Evelina Эвелина f English, Italian, Swedish, Lithuanian, Greek, Russian, Bulgarian
Latinate form of Aveline. It was revived by the author Fanny Burney for the heroine of her first novel Evelina (1778). It is often regarded as a variant of the related name Evelyn or an elaboration of Eve.
Evgeni Евгений m Bulgarian, Georgian, Russian
Bulgarian and Georgian form of Eugene, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Евгений (see Yevgeniy).
Evgenia Евгения f Greek, Russian, Bulgarian
Modern Greek form of Eugenia. It is also an alternate transcription of Russian Евгения (see Yevgeniya) or Bulgarian Евгения (see Evgeniya).
Evgeniy Евгений m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Евгений (see Yevgeniy).
Evgeniya Евгения f Bulgarian, Russian
Bulgarian form of Eugenia and an alternate transcription of Russian Евгения (see Yevgeniya).
Evgeny Евгений m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Евгений (see Yevgeniy).
Evpraksiya Евпраксия f Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Евпраксия (see Yevpraksiya).
Faddei Фаддей m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Фаддей (see Faddey).
Faddey Фаддей m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Thaddeus.
Faina Фаина f Russian
Meaning unknown, possibly derived from Phaenna.
Fedor Федор m Russian
Variant of Fyodor.
Fedora Федора f Russian (Rare), Italian
Russian form of Theodora. This was the name of an 1898 opera by the Italian composer Umberto Giordano (who based it on an 1882 French play).
Fedot Федот m Russian
Russian form of Theodotus.
Fedya Федя m Russian
Diminutive of Fyodor.
Feliks Феликс m Russian, Slovene, Polish
Russian, Slovene and Polish form of Felix.
Feodor Феодор m Russian (Archaic)
Variant of Fyodor.
Feodora Феодора f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Theodora.
Feodosiy Феодосий m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Theodosius.
Feodosiya Феодосия f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Theodosia.
Feofan Феофан m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Theophanes.
Feofil Феофил m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Theophilus.
Feofilakt Феофилакт m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Theophylaktos.
Ferapont Ферапонт m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Therapon.
Filat Филат m Russian (Rare)
Short form of Feofilakt.
Filipp Филипп m Russian
Russian form of Philip.
Fima Фима m Russian
Diminutive of Yefim.
Foka Фока m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Phocas.
Foma Фома m Russian
Russian form of Thomas.
Fyodor Фёдор m Russian
Russian form of Theodore. It was borne by three tsars of Russia. Another notable bearer was Fyodor Dostoyevsky (1821-1881), the Russian author of such works as Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov.
Fyokla Фёкла f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Thekla.
Gala 1 Гала f Russian
Short form of Galina.
Galina Галина f Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian feminine form of Galenos (see Galen).
Galya Галя f Russian, Bulgarian
Diminutive of Galina.
Gavriil Гавриил m Greek, Russian
Greek and Russian form of Gabriel.
Gena 2 Гена m Russian
Diminutive of Gennadiy.
Gennadi Геннадий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Геннадий (see Gennadiy).
Gennadiy Геннадий m Russian
Russian form of Gennadius.
Gennadiya Геннадия f Russian (Rare)
Feminine form of Gennadiy.
Gennady Геннадий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Геннадий (see Gennadiy).
Genrikh Генрих m Russian
Russian form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Genya Геня m Russian
Diminutive of Gennadiy or Yevgeniy.
Georgiy Георгий m Russian
Russian form of George.
Georgy Георгий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Георгий (see Georgiy).
Gerasim Герасим m Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Russian, Bulgarian and Macedonian form of Gerasimos.
German Герман m Russian
Russian form of Germanus (or sometimes of Herman).
Germogen Гермоген m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Hermogenes.
Glafira Глафира f Russian
Russian form of Glaphyra.
Gleb Глеб m Russian
Russian form of the Old Norse name Guðleifr, which was derived from the elements guð "god" and leif "inheritance, legacy". This was the name of an 11th-century saint, a member of the ruling family of Kievan Rus. Along with his brother Boris he was killed in the power struggles that followed the death of his father Vladimir the Great, and he is regarded as a martyr.
Glikeriya Гликерия f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Glykeria.
Grigori Григорий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Григорий (see Grigoriy).
Grigorii Григорий m Russian, Medieval Slavic
Alternate transcription of Russian Григорий (see Grigoriy), as well as the usual transcription of the Old Slavic form.
Grigoriy Григорий m Russian
Russian form of Gregory. This name was borne by the Russian mystic Grigoriy Rasputin (1869-1916), more commonly known by only his surname.
Grigory Григорий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Григорий (see Grigoriy).
Grisha Гриша m Russian
Diminutive of Grigoriy.
Grusha Груша f Russian
Diminutive of Agrafena.
Ieronim Иероним m Romanian (Rare), Russian (Rare)
Romanian and Russian form of Hieronymos (see Jerome).
Ignat Игнат m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Ignatius.
Ignatiy Игнатий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Ignatius.
Igor Игорь m Russian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Slovak, Czech, Italian, Portuguese
Russian form of the Old Norse name Yngvarr (see Ingvar). The Varangians brought it with them when they began settling in eastern Europe in the 9th century. It was borne by two grand princes of Kiev, notably Igor I the son of Rurik and the wife of Saint Olga. Other famous bearers include Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971), a Russian composer known for The Rite of Spring, and Igor Sikorsky (1889-1972), the Russian-American designer of the first successful helicopter.
Ilariy Иларий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Hilarius.
Ilia Илья m Georgian, Russian, Bulgarian, Belarusian, Old Church Slavic
Georgian form of Elijah. It is also an alternate transcription of Russian Илья or Belarusian Ілья (see Ilya) or Bulgarian Илия (see Iliya).
Ilja Илья m Czech, Estonian, Lithuanian, Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Илья (see Ilya), as well as the usual form in several other languages.
Illarion Илларион m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Hilarion.
Ilya Илья m Russian, Belarusian
Russian and Belarusian form of Elijah.
Inessa Инесса f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Inés.
Inga Инга f Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, German, Polish, Russian, Old Norse, Germanic
Strictly feminine form of Inge.
Inna Инна f Russian, Ukrainian
Meaning unknown. This was the name of an early Scythian saint and martyr, a male, supposedly a disciple of Saint Andrew.
Innokenti Иннокентий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Иннокентий (see Innokentiy).
Innokentiy Иннокентий m Russian
Russian form of Innocentius (see Innocent).
Innokenty Иннокентий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Иннокентий (see Innokentiy).
Ioann Иоанн m Russian
Older Russian form of John.
Iolanta Иоланта f Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Yolanda.
Iona 2 Иона m Russian, Georgian, Biblical Latin
Form of Jonah used in the Latin Old Testament, as well as the Russian and Georgian form.
Iosif Иосиф m Russian, Romanian, Greek
Russian, Romanian and Greek form of Joseph.
Iouri Юрий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Юрий (see Yuriy).
Ipati Ипатий m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Ипатий (see Ipatiy).
Ipatiy Ипатий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of the Greek name Ὕπατος (Hypatos), the masculine form of Hypatia.
Ippolit Ипполит m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Hippolytos.
Ira 2 Ира f Russian
Short form of Irina.
Irakliy Ираклий m Russian
Russian form of Herakleios (see Heraclius).
Irina Ирина f Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Romanian, Georgian, Finnish, Estonian
Form of Irene in several languages.
Irinei Ириней m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Ириней (see Iriney).
Iriney Ириней m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Irenaeus.
Irinushka Иринушка f Russian
Russian diminutive of Irina.
Isaak Исаак m Greek, Russian (Archaic), German (Rare), Biblical Greek
Greek, Russian and German form of Isaac.
Isay Исай m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Isaiah.
Isidor Исидор m German (Rare), Russian (Rare)
German and Russian form of Isidore.
Ivan Иван m Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Serbian, Croatian, Czech, Slovak, Macedonian, Slovene, English, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Estonian
Newer form of the old Slavic name Іѡаннъ (Ioannu), which was derived from Greek Ioannes (see John). This was the name of six Russian rulers, including the 15th-century Ivan III the Great and 16th-century Ivan IV the Terrible, the first tsar of Russia. It was also borne by nine emperors of Bulgaria. Other notable bearers include the Russian author Ivan Turgenev (1818-1883), who wrote Fathers and Sons, and the Russian physiologist Ivan Pavlov (1849-1936), who is best known for his discovery of the conditioned reflex.
Iya Ия f Russian
Meaning unknown. This name was borne by Saint Ia of Persia, a 4th-century martyr who is venerated in the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Izolda Изольда f Georgian, Russian, Hungarian, Polish (Rare)
Georgian, Russian, Hungarian and Polish form of Iseult.
Jekaterina Екатерина f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Екатерина (see Yekaterina).
Julia Юлия f English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Spanish, Polish, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Ukrainian, Ancient Roman, Biblical
Feminine form of the Roman family name Julius. Among the notable women from this family were Julia Augusta (also known as Livia Drusilla), the wife of Emperor Augustus, and Julia the Elder, the daughter of Augustus and the wife of Tiberius. A person by this name has a brief mention in the New Testament. It was also borne by a few early saints and martyrs, including the patron saint of Corsica. Additionally, Shakespeare used it in his comedy The Two Gentlemen of Verona (1594).... [more]
Juliya Юлия f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Юлия or Ukrainian Юлія (see Yuliya).
Kamilla Камилла f Russian, Hungarian, Polish, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish
Russian and Hungarian form of Camilla, as well as a Polish and Scandinavian variant. This is also the Hungarian word for the chamomile flower (species Matricaria chamomilla).
Karina Карина f Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Polish, German, Russian, English, Latvian, Spanish
Elaborated form of Karin.
Karp Карп m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Karpos (see Carpus).
Katenka Катенька f Russian
Diminutive of Yekaterina.
Katerina Катерина f Macedonian, Albanian, Russian, Bulgarian, Greek, Late Roman
Macedonian and Albanian form of Katherine, a Russian short form of Yekaterina, a Bulgarian short form of Ekaterina, and a Greek variant of Aikaterine.
Katia Катя f Italian, French, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Italian and French form of Katya, as well as an alternate transcription of the Slavic name.
Katya Катя f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Russian diminutive of Yekaterina.
Katyusha Катюша f Russian
Diminutive of Yekaterina.
Kazimir Казимир m Russian, Slovene, Croatian, Medieval Slavic
Russian, Slovene and Croatian form of Casimir.
Kesha Кеша m Russian
Diminutive of Innokentiy.
Khariton Харитон m Russian
Russian form of Chariton.
Khristofor Христофор m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Christopher.
Kir Кир m Russian
Russian form of Cyrus.
Kira 1 Кира f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian feminine form of Cyrus.
Kirill Кирилл m Russian
Russian form of Cyril.
Klara Клара f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, German, Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian
Form of Clara in various languages.
Klava Клава f Russian
Diminutive of Klavdiya.
Klavdia Клавдия f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Клавдия (see Klavdiya).
Klavdiya Клавдия f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian feminine form of Claudius.
Klim Клим m Russian
Short form of Kliment.
Kliment Климент m Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Russian, Bulgarian and Macedonian form of Clemens (see Clement).
Kolya Коля m Russian
Diminutive of Nikolai.
Konstantin Константин m Russian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, German, Estonian, Finnish, Hungarian
Form of Constantine in several languages.
Kostya Костя m Russian
Russian diminutive of Konstantin.
Kristina Кристина f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Russian, German, Slovene, Czech, Lithuanian, Serbian, Croatian, Albanian, Faroese, English, Bulgarian
Form of Christina in several languages. It is also an English variant of Christina and a Bulgarian variant of Hristina.
Ksenia Ксения f Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Polish form of Xenia, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Ксения or Ukrainian/Belarusian Ксенія (see Kseniya).
Kseniya Ксения f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian form of Xenia.
Ksyusha Ксюша f Russian
Diminutive of Kseniya.
Kuzma Кузьма m Russian
Russian form of Cosmas.
Lada Лада f Slavic Mythology, Czech, Russian, Croatian
Meaning uncertain. This was the name of a Slavic fertility goddess. It can also be a diminutive of Vladislava or Vladimira.
Lana Лана f English, Russian, Croatian, Slovene, Georgian
Short form of Alana (English) or Svetlana (Russian). In the English-speaking world it was popularized by actress Lana Turner (1921-1995), who was born Julia Jean Turner.
Lara 1 Лара f Russian, English, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, Hungarian, Slovene, Croatian
Russian short form of Larisa. It was introduced to the English-speaking world by a character from Boris Pasternak's novel Doctor Zhivago (1957) and the subsequent movie adaptation (1965). Between 1965 and 1969 it increased by almost 2,000 percent in the United States, however it is currently much more popular in the United Kingdom, Australia, Spain, Portugual, Italy, and Germany. Another famous fictional bearer is Lara Croft, first appearing in video games in 1996 and movies in 2001.
Larisa Лариса f Russian, Ukrainian, Romanian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Slovene, Greek Mythology
Possibly derived from the name of the ancient city of Larisa in Thessaly, which meant "citadel". In Greek legends, the nymph Larisa was either a daughter or mother of Pelasgus, the ancestor of the mythical Pelasgians. This name was later borne by a 4th-century Greek martyr who is venerated as a saint in the Eastern Church. The name (of the city, nymph and saint) is commonly Latinized as Larissa, with a double s. As a Ukrainian name, it is more commonly transcribed Larysa.
Lavr Лавр m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Laurus (see Laura).
Lavrenti Лаврентий m Russian, Georgian
Alternate transcription of Russian Лаврентий (see Lavrentiy), as well as the Georgian form.
Lavrentiy Лаврентий m Russian
Russian form of Laurentius (see Laurence 1).
Lavrenty Лаврентий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Лаврентий (see Lavrentiy).
Lazar Лазарь m Russian, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Russian, Bulgarian, Serbian and Macedonian form of Lazarus.
Lena Лена f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Polish, Finnish, Russian, Ukrainian, English, Italian, Portuguese, Greek, Georgian, Armenian
Short form of names ending in lena, such as Helena, Magdalena or Yelena.
Leonid Леонид m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Leonidas.
Leonti Леонтий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Леонтий (see Leontiy).
Leontiy Леонтий m Russian
Russian form of Leontios.
Leonty Леонтий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Леонтий (see Leontiy).
Lera Лера f Russian, Ukrainian
Short form of Valeriya.
Lev 1 Лев m Russian
Means "lion" in Russian, functioning as a vernacular form of Leo. This was the real Russian name of both author Leo Tolstoy (1828-1910) and revolutionary Leon Trotsky (1879-1940).
Lidiya Лидия f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Lydia.
Lidochka Лидочка f Russian
Russian diminutive of Lidiya.
Lilia Лилия f Spanish, Italian, Russian, Ukrainian
Spanish and Italian form of Lily, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Лилия or Ukrainian Лілія (see Liliya).
Liliya Лилия f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian cognate of Lily.
Lilya Лилия f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Лилия or Ukrainian Лілія (see Liliya).
Liouba Люба f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Люба (see Lyuba).
Lioubov Любовь f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Любовь (see Lyubov).
Liubov Любовь f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Любовь or Ukrainian Любов (see Lyubov).
Liudmila Людмила f Belarusian, Russian, Ukrainian
Belarusian form of Lyudmila, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Людмила (see Lyudmila) or Ukrainian Людмила (see Lyudmyla).
Liza Лиза f English, Russian, Greek, Georgian
Short form of Elizabeth (English), Yelizaveta (Russian), Elisavet (Greek) or Elisabed (Georgian).
Lizaveta Лизавета f Russian
Short form of Yelizaveta.
Luba Люба f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Ukrainian Люба (see Lyuba).
Lubov Любовь f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Alternate transcription of Russian Любовь or Ukrainian/Bulgarian Любов (see Lyubov).
Ludmila Людмила f Czech, Latvian, Russian
Means "favour of the people" from the Slavic elements lyudu "people" and milu "gracious, dear". Saint Ludmila was a 10th-century duchess of Bohemia, the grandmother of Saint Václav. She was murdered on the orders of her daughter-in-law Drahomíra.... [more]
Ludmilla Людмила f Russian, Bulgarian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Людмила (see Lyudmila).
Luka Лука m Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Russian, Georgian, Old Church Slavic
Form of Lucas (see Luke) in several languages.
Lukyan Лукьян m Russian (Archaic), Ukrainian (Archaic)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Lucianus.
Lyosha Лёша m Russian
Diminutive of Aleksey.
Lyov Лёв m Russian (Rare)
Variant of Lev 1.
Lyuba Люба f Russian, Ukrainian
Diminutive of Lyubov.
Lyubochka Любочка f Russian, Ukrainian
Diminutive of Lyubov.
Lyubov Любовь f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Derived from the Slavic element lyuby meaning "love".
Lyudmila Людмила f Russian, Bulgarian, Medieval Slavic
Russian and Bulgarian form of Ludmila. This was the name of a character in Aleksandr Pushkin's poem Ruslan and Lyudmila (1820).
Makar Макар m Russian
Russian form of Makarios (see Macario).
Makari Макарий m Russian (Archaic)
Alternate transcription of Russian Макарий (see Makariy).
Makariy Макарий m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Makarios (see Macario).
Maks Макс m Russian, Ukrainian
Short form of Maksim or Maksym.
Maksim Максим m Russian, Belarusian, Macedonian, Ukrainian
Russian, Belarusian and Macedonian form of Maximus, as well as an alternate transcription of Ukrainian Максим (see Maksym).
Maksimilian Максимилиан, Максимильян m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Maximilianus (see Maximilian).
Manya Маня f Russian
Russian diminutive of Maria.
Marfa Марфа f Russian
Traditional Russian form of Martha.
Margarita Маргарита f Spanish, Russian, Bulgarian, Lithuanian, Latvian, Greek, Albanian, Late Roman
Latinate form of Margaret. This is also the Spanish word for the daisy flower (species Bellis perennis, Leucanthemum vulgare and others).
Maria Мария f & m Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Occitan, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Faroese, Dutch, Frisian, Greek, Polish, Romanian, English, Finnish, Estonian, Corsican, Sardinian, Basque, Armenian, Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Biblical Greek, Biblical Latin, Old Church Slavic
Latin form of Greek Μαρία, from Hebrew מִרְיָם (see Mary). Maria is the usual form of the name in many European languages, as well as a secondary form in other languages such as English (where the common spelling is Mary). In some countries, for example Germany, Poland and Italy, Maria is occasionally used as a masculine middle name.... [more]
Marianna Марианна f Italian, Hungarian, Slovak, Polish, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Greek, English
Combination of Maria and Anna. It has been confused with the Roman name Mariana to the point that it is no longer easy to separate the two forms. It is sometimes also used as a Latinized form of Mariamne.
Marina Марина f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, English, Greek, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Romanian, Czech, Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Georgian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Marinus. This name was borne by a few early saints. This is also the name by which Saint Margaret of Antioch is known in the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Mariya Мария f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Maria, as well as an alternate transcription of Belarusian Марыя (see Maryia).
Mark Марк m English, Russian, Belarusian, Dutch, Danish, Armenian, Biblical
Form of Latin Marcus used in several languages. Saint Mark was the author of the second gospel in the New Testament. Though the author's identity is not certain, some traditions hold him to be the same person as the John Mark who appears in the Book of Acts. He is the patron saint of Venice, where he is supposedly buried. Though in use during the Middle Ages, Mark was not common in the English-speaking world until the 19th century, when it began to be used alongside the classical form Marcus.... [more]
Marlen 1 Марлен m Russian
Blend of Marx and Lenin. This name was created by Communist parents who were eager to reject traditional names.
Marta Марта f Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Slovak, German, Dutch, Romanian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian, Swedish, Icelandic, Latvian, Estonian, Georgian
Form of Martha used in various languages.
Martin Мартин, Мартын m English, French, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Russian, Romanian, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Finnish
From the Roman name Martinus, which was derived from Martis, the genitive case of the name of the Roman god Mars. Saint Martin of Tours was a 4th-century bishop who is the patron saint of France. According to legend, he came across a cold beggar in the middle of winter so he ripped his cloak in two and gave half of it to the beggar. He was a favourite saint during the Middle Ages, and his name has become common throughout the Christian world.... [more]
Marusya Маруся f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian diminutive of Mariya.
Marya Марья f Russian
Russian variant form of Maria.
Maryana Марьяна f Ukrainian, Russian
Ukrainian form of Marianna, and a Russian variant.
Masha Маша f Russian
Russian diminutive of Mariya.
Matfey Матфей m Russian (Rare)
Older Russian form of Matthew.
Matrona 1 Матрона f Russian (Rare), Late Roman
Means "lady" in Late Latin, a derivative of Latin mater "mother". This was the name of three early saints.
Matryona Матрёна f Russian (Rare)
Russian variant of Matrona 1.
Matvei Матвей m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Матвей (see Matvey).
Matvey Матвей m Russian
Russian form of Matthew.
Max Макс m German, English, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Dutch, Czech, Russian, Catalan
Short form of Maximilian (or Maxwell in English). It is also an alternate transcription of Russian Макс (see Maks).... [more]
Maxim Максим m Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Czech
Alternate transcription of Russian Максим or Belarusian Максім (see Maksim) or Ukrainian Максим (see Maksym). This is also the Czech form.
Mechislav Мечислав m Russian (Rare), Medieval Slavic
Russian form of Mieczysław.
Mefodiy Мефодий m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Methodius.
Melor Мэлор m Russian (Rare)
Acronym of Russian Маркс, Энгельс, Ленин or Октябрьская Революция (Marx, Engels, Lenin, October Revolution). This name commemorates the creation of the former Soviet state. It was created by Communist parents who were eager to reject traditional names.
Michail Михаил m Greek, Russian
Modern Greek transcription of Michael. It is also an alternate transcription of Russian Михаил (see Mikhail).
Mikhail Михаил m Russian, Belarusian, Bulgarian
Russian and Belarusian form of Michael, and an alternate transcription of Bulgarian Михаил (see Mihail). This was the name of two Russian tsars. Other notable bearers include the poet Mikhail Lermontov (1814-1841) and the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev (1931-).
Mila Мила f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Czech, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Originally a diminutive of Slavic names containing the element milu "gracious, dear".
Milan Милан m Czech, Slovak, Russian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Macedonian
From the Slavic element milu meaning "gracious, dear", originally a short form of names that began with that element. A city in Italy bears this name, though it originates from a different source.
Milana Милана f Russian, Serbian, Croatian, Belarusian, Ukrainian
Feminine form of Milan.
Milena Милена f Bulgarian, Czech, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Polish, Russian, Slovak, Italian
Feminine form of Milan. It began to be used in Italy in honour of Milena Vukotić (1847-1923), mother of Helen of Montenegro, the wife of the Italian king Victor Emmanuel III. In Italy it can also be considered a combination of Maria and Elena.
Miron 1 Мирон m Romanian, Russian, Polish
Romanian, Russian and Polish form of Myron.
Miroslav Мирослав m Czech, Slovak, Russian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic elements miru "peace, world" and slava "glory". This was the name of a 10th-century king of Croatia who was deposed by one of his nobles after ruling for four years.
Miroslava Мирослава f Czech, Slovak, Russian, Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene, Medieval Slavic
Feminine form of Miroslav.
Misha Миша m Russian
Russian diminutive of Mikhail.
Mishka Мишка m Russian
Russian diminutive of Mikhail.
Mitrofan Митрофан m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Metrophanes.
Mitya Митя m Russian
Diminutive of Dmitriy or Mitrofan.
Modest Модест m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Modestus.
Moisey Моисей m Russian
Russian form of Moses.
Motya Мотя m & f Russian
Diminutive of Matvey or Matrona 1.
Mstislav Мстислав m Czech (Rare), Russian (Rare), Medieval Slavic
Means "vengeance and glory" from the Slavic elements misti "vengeance" and slava "glory".
Nadejda Надежда f Russian, Bulgarian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Надежда (see Nadezhda).
Nadezhda Надежда f Russian, Bulgarian
Means "hope" in Russian and Bulgarian.
Nadia 1 Надя f French, Italian, Spanish, English, Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian
Variant of Nadya 1 used in western Europe, as well as an alternate transcription of the Slavic name. It began to be used in France in the 19th century. The name received a boost in popularity from the Romanian gymnast Nadia Comaneci (1961-).
Nadya 1 Надя f Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian
Russian and Bulgarian diminutive of Nadezhda. It is also an alternate transcription of Ukrainian Надія (see Nadiya).
Nastasia Настасья f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Настасья (see Nastasya).
Nastasya Настасья f Russian
Short form of Anastasiya.
Nastia Настя f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Настя (see Nastya).
Nastya Настя f Russian
Diminutive of Anastasiya.
Nata Ната f Russian, Georgian
Short form of Natalya (Russian) or Natalia (Georgian).
Natali Натали f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Natalie.
Natalia Наталия f Polish, Italian, Spanish, Romanian, English, German, Dutch, Norwegian, Danish, Swedish, Greek, Georgian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Late Roman
Latinate form of Natalia (see Natalie).
Nataliya Наталия f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Natalia (see Natalie).
Natalya Наталья f Russian
Russian form of Natalia (see Natalie).
Natasha Наташа f Russian, Belarusian, English
Russian diminutive of Natalya. This is the name of a character in Leo Tolstoy's novel War and Peace (1865). It has been used in the English-speaking world only since the 20th century.
Naum Наум m Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Russian, Bulgarian and Macedonian form of Nahum.
Nazar Назар m Russian, Ukrainian, Turkmen, Armenian
Russian, Ukrainian, Turkmen and Armenian form of Nazarius.
Nazariy Назарий m Ukrainian, Russian (Rare)
Ukrainian and Russian form of Nazarius.
Nelli Нелли f Russian, Finnish, Hungarian
Russian, Finnish and Hungarian form of Nellie.
Nestor Нестор m Greek Mythology, Russian
Means "returner, homecomer" in Greek, from νέομαι (neomai) meaning "to return". In Homer's Iliad this was the name of the king of Pylos, famous for his great wisdom and longevity, who acted as a counselor to the Greek allies.
Nika 1 Ника f & m Russian
Russian short form of Veronika and other names ending in nika. It can also be a short form of Nikita 1 (masculine).
Nikandr Никандр m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Nikandros.
Nikanor Никанор m Ancient Greek, Russian (Rare)
Greek and Russian form of Nicanor.
Nikifor Никифор m Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Russian, Bulgarian and Macedonian form of Nikephoros.
Nikita 1 Никита m Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian form of Niketas. This form is also used in Ukrainian and Belarusian alongside the more traditional forms Mykyta and Mikita.
Nikodim Никодим m Russian
Russian form of Nicodemus.
Nikolai Николай m Russian, Bulgarian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Николай (see Nikolay).
Nikolay Николай m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Nicholas. A notable bearer was the Russian novelist Nikolay Gogol (1809-1852).
Nikon Никон m Ancient Greek, Russian
Derived from Greek νίκη (nike) meaning "victory".
Nil Нил m & f Catalan, Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare), Belarusian (Rare), Turkish
Catalan, Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian form of Neilos (and the Nile River). This name was borne by a 15th-century Russian saint, Nil Sorsky. As a Turkish name it is feminine, and comes directly from the Turkish name for the river.
Nina 1 Нина f Russian, Italian, English, German, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Lithuanian, Dutch, Polish, Slovene, Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Short form of names that end in nina, such as Antonina or Giannina. It was imported to Western Europe from Russia and Italy in the 19th century. This name also nearly coincides with the Spanish word niña meaning "little girl".
Nina 3 Нина f Russian
Russian form of Nino 2.
Ninel Нинель f Russian
Reversal of the surname Lenin. Lenin was the founder of the former Soviet state. This name was created by Communist parents who were eager to reject traditional names.
Ninochka Ниночка f Russian
Diminutive of Nina 1.
Nonna Нонна f Late Greek, Russian
Feminine form of Nonnos. This was the name of a 4th-century saint from Nazianzus in Cappadocia. She was the mother of Saint Gregory of Nazianzus.
Noyabrina Ноябрина f Russian (Rare)
Derived from Russian ноябрь (noyabr) meaning "November". It was coined by Communist parents in order to commemorate the October Revolution of 1917, which according to the Gregorian calendar (not in use in Russia at the time) actually took place in November 1917.
Odissey Одиссей m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Odysseus.
Ofeliya Офелия f Azerbaijani, Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare), Bulgarian (Rare)
Azerbaijani, Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Ophelia.
Oksana Оксана f Ukrainian, Russian
Ukrainian form of Xenia.
Oktyabrina Октябрина f Russian (Rare)
Derived from Russian октябрь (oktyabr) meaning "October". This name was created by Communist parents who were eager to reject traditional names and commemorate the October Revolution of 1917.
Oleg Олег m Russian, Georgian
Russian form of the Old Norse name Helgi (see Helge). The Varangians brought this name from Scandinavia to eastern Europe: it was borne by a 9th-century Varangian ruler who conquered Kiev and made it the capital of the state of Kievan Rus.
Olesya Олеся f Ukrainian, Russian
Ukrainian diminutive of Oleksandra. This was the name of an 1898 novel by the Russian author Aleksandr Kuprin.
Olga Ольга f Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Hungarian, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Czech, Slovene, Serbian, Bulgarian, Greek
Russian form of the Old Norse name Helga. The 10th-century Saint Olga was the wife of Igor I, the ruler of Kievan Rus (a state based around the city of Kiev). Like her husband she was probably a Varangian, who were Norse people who settled in eastern Europe beginning in the 9th century. Following Igor's death she ruled as regent for her son Svyatoslav for 18 years. After she was baptized in Constantinople she attempted to convert her subjects to Christianity, though this goal was only achieved by her grandson Vladimir.
Olimpiada Олимпиада f Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Olympias.
Olya Оля f Russian
Diminutive of Olga.
Onisim Онисим m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Onesimus.
Onufriy Онуфрий m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Onuphrius.
Osip Осип m Russian
Russian form of Joseph.
Oxana Оксана f Ukrainian, Russian
Alternate transcription of Ukrainian/Russian Оксана (see Oksana).
Pafnutiy Пафнутий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Paphnutius.
Pankrati Панкратий m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Панкратий (see Pankratiy).
Pankratiy Панкратий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Pancratius.
Panteley Пантелей m Bulgarian (Rare), Russian (Rare)
Bulgarian and Russian form of both Panteleimon and Pantaleon.
Pasha Паша m Russian
Diminutive of Pavel.
Patritsiya Патриция f Bulgarian (Rare), Russian (Rare)
Bulgarian and Russian feminine form of Patricius (see Patrick).
Patya Патя m Russian (Rare)
Diminutive of Ipatiy.
Pavel Павел m Russian, Czech, Bulgarian, Slovene, Macedonian, Belarusian
Russian, Czech, Bulgarian, Slovene, Macedonian and Belarusian form of Paul.
Pelageya Пелагея f Russian
Russian form of Pelagia.
Pelagiya Пелагия f Russian
Russian form of Pelagia.
Petia Петя m & f Russian, Bulgarian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Петя (see Petya).
Petya Петя m & f Russian, Bulgarian
Russian masculine diminutive of Pyotr or Bulgarian feminine diminutive of Petar.
Platon Платон m Ancient Greek, Greek, Russian, Ukrainian
Greek form of Plato.
Polikarp Поликарп m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Polycarp.
Polina Полина f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Greek
Either a Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian and Greek form of Paulina or a short form of Apollinariya.
Porfiriy Порфирий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Porphyrios (see Porfirio).
Praskovia Прасковья f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Прасковья (see Praskovya).
Praskoviya Прасковья f Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Прасковья (see Praskovya).
Praskovya Прасковья f Russian
Russian form of Paraskeve.
Prokhor Прохор m Russian
Russian form of Prochorus.
Prokopiy Прокопий m Russian
Russian form of Prokopios.
Prokopy Прокопий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Прокопий (see Prokopiy).
Pyotr Пётр m Russian
Russian form of Peter. A famous bearer was the Russian composer Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky (1840-1893).
Rada Рада f Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian
Derived from the Slavic element rad meaning "happy, willing".
Radimir Радимир m Russian (Rare)
Russian variant form of Radomir.
Radmir Радмир m Russian
Russian form of Radomir.
Rafail Рафаил m Greek, Russian
Greek and Russian form of Raphael.
Raisa 1 Раиса f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Possibly from the Greek name Herais. This was the name of a saint and martyr killed in Alexandria during the early 4th-century persecutions of the Roman emperor Diocletian.
Raya Рая f Bulgarian, Russian
Diminutive of Rayna 1 or Raisa 1.
Renat Ренат m Russian
Russian form of Renatus. In some cases Communist parents may have bestowed it as an acronym of революция наука техника (revolyutsiya nauka tekhnika) meaning "revolution, science, technics" or революция наука труд (revolyutsiya nauka trud) meaning "revolution, science, labour".
Robert Роберт m English, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Finnish, Estonian, Czech, Polish, Russian, Slovene, Croatian, Albanian, Romanian, Catalan, Germanic
From the Germanic name Hrodebert meaning "bright fame", derived from the elements hruod "fame" and beraht "bright". The Normans introduced this name to Britain, where it replaced the rare Old English cognate Hreodbeorht. It has been consistently among the most common English names from the 13th to 20th century. In the United States it was the most popular name for boys between 1924 and 1939 (and again in 1953).... [more]
Rodion Родион m Russian
Russian form of Herodion.
Rodya Родя m Russian
Diminutive of Rodion.
Roksana Роксана f Russian, Polish
Russian and Polish form of Roxana.
Roksolana Роксолана f Ukrainian, Russian
Ukrainian and Russian form of Roxelana.
Rolan Ролан m Russian
Russian form of Roland.
Roma 1 Рома m Russian
Diminutive of Roman.
Roman Роман m Russian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Ukrainian, Slovene, Croatian, Estonian, German, English
From the Late Latin name Romanus meaning "Roman". This name was borne by several early saints.
Rostislav Ростислав m Russian, Czech, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic elements rasti "growth" and slava "glory".
Roza 1 Роза f Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Means "rose" in some Slavic languages. It is a cognate of Rosa 1.
Rozaliya Розалия f Russian
Russian form of Rosalia.
Rudolf Рудольф m German, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Dutch, Russian, Armenian
From the Germanic name Hrodulf, which was derived from the elements hruod meaning "fame" and wolf meaning "wolf". It was borne by three kings of Burgundy and a king of West Francia, as well as several Habsburg rulers of the Holy Roman Empire and Austria. Anthony Hope used this name for the hero in his popular novel The Prisoner of Zenda (1894).
Ruf Руфь f Russian
Russian form of Ruth 1.
Rufina Руфина f Russian, Spanish, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Rufinus.
Rurik Рюрик m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of the Old Norse name Hrǿríkr. This was the name of a 9th-century Varangian ruler of Novgorod.
Ruslan Руслан m Russian, Tatar, Bashkir, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Uzbek, Turkmen, Azerbaijani, Ossetian, Chechen, Ingush, Avar, Circassian, Indonesian, Malay
Form of Yeruslan used by Aleksandr Pushkin in his poem Ruslan and Ludmila (1820), which was loosely based on Russian and Tatar folktales of Yeruslan Lazarevich.
Rustik Рустик m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Rusticus.
Ruvim Рувим m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Reuben.
Sabina Сабина f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish, Czech, Slovene, Russian, Croatian, Swedish, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Sabinus, a Roman cognomen meaning "a Sabine" in Latin. The Sabines were an ancient people who lived in central Italy, their lands eventually taken over by the Romans after several wars. According to legend, the Romans abducted several Sabine women during a raid, and when the men came to rescue them, the women were able to make peace between the two groups. This name was borne by several early saints.
Samuil Самуил m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Samuel.
Sanya 2 Саня m & f Russian
Diminutive of Aleksandr or Aleksandra.
Sasha Саша m & f Russian, Ukrainian, English, French
Russian and Ukrainian diminutive of Aleksandr or Aleksandra.
Sashenka Сашенька f Russian
Diminutive of Sasha.
Sashok Сашок m Russian
Diminutive of Aleksandr.
Saveli Савелий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Савелий (see Saveliy).
Saveliy Савелий m Russian
Russian form of the Latin name Sabellius meaning "a Sabine". The Sabines were an ancient people who lived in central Italy.
Savely Савелий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Савелий (see Saveliy).
Savva Савва m Russian
Russian form of Sabas.
Selena Селена f Spanish, Russian, Greek Mythology (Latinized)
Latinized form of Selene. This name was borne by popular Mexican-American singer Selena Quintanilla (1971-1995), who was known simply as Selena.
Semen Семён m Ukrainian, Russian
Ukrainian form of Simon 1, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Семён (see Semyon).
Semion Семён m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Семён (see Semyon).
Semyon Семён m Russian
Russian form of Simon 1.
Serafim Серафим m Greek, Portuguese, Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Form of Seraphinus (see Seraphina) in various languages.
Serafima Серафима f Russian
Russian form of Seraphina.
Sergei Сергей m Russian, Bulgarian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Сергей (see Sergey).
Sergej Сергей m Serbian, Russian, Bulgarian
Serbian form of Sergius, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Сергей (see Sergey).
Sergey Сергей m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Sergius.
Seva Сева m Russian
Diminutive of Vsevolod.
Sevastian Севастьян m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Севастьян (see Sevastyan).
Sevastyan Севастьян m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Sebastian.
Shura Шура f & m Russian
Russian diminutive of Aleksandra or Aleksandr.
Silvestr Сильвестр m Czech, Russian (Rare)
Czech and Russian form of Silvester.
Slava Слава m & f Russian, Slovene, Croatian
Short form of Slavic names containing the element slava "glory".
Snezhana Снежана f Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Snježana, as well as an alternate transcription of Macedonian Снежана (see Snežana).
Sofia София f Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Finnish, Estonian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Form of Sophia used in various languages.
Sofiya София f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Sophia.
Sofron Софрон m Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Sophron.
Sofya Софья f Russian
Russian form of Sophia.
Sonya Соня f Russian, English
Russian diminutive of Sophia. This is the name of a character in Leo Tolstoy's novel War and Peace (1869, English translation 1886).
Spartak Спартак m Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Albanian, Armenian, Georgian
Form of Spartacus in several languages.
Stanislav Станислав m Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic elements stani meaning "stand, become" combined with slava meaning "glory".
Stanislava Станислава f Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Russian, Medieval Slavic
Feminine form of Stanislav.
Stas Стас m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian diminutive of Stanislav.
Stasya Стася f Russian
Diminutive of Stanislava or Anastasiya.
Stefaniya Стефания f Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian
Russian, Bulgarian and Ukrainian feminine form of Stephen.
Stepan Степан m Russian, Ukrainian, Armenian
Russian, Ukrainian and Armenian form of Stephanos (see Stephen).
Styopa Стёпа m Russian
Diminutive of Stepan.
Susanna Сусанна f Italian, Catalan, Swedish, Finnish, Russian, Ukrainian, Dutch, English, Armenian, Biblical, Biblical Latin, Old Church Slavic
From Σουσάννα (Sousanna), the Greek form of the Hebrew name שׁוֹשַׁנָּה (Shoshannah). This was derived from the Hebrew word שׁוֹשָׁן (shoshan) meaning "lily" (in modern Hebrew this also means "rose"), perhaps ultimately from Egyptian sšn "lotus". In the Old Testament Apocrypha this is the name of a woman falsely accused of adultery. The prophet Daniel clears her name by tricking her accusers, who end up being condemned themselves. It also occurs in the New Testament belonging to a woman who ministers to Jesus.... [more]
Sveta Света f Russian
Short form of Svetlana.
Svetka Светка f Russian
Diminutive of Svetlana.
Svetlana Светлана f Russian, Slovak, Bulgarian, Serbian, Macedonian, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Armenian, Georgian
Derived from Russian svet meaning "light, world". It was popularized by the poem Svetlana (1813) by the poet Vasily Zhukovsky. It is sometimes used as a translation of Photine.
Sviatoslav Святослав m Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian/Ukrainian Святослав (see Svyatoslav).
Svyatopolk Святополк m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Svatopluk.
Svyatoslav Святослав m Russian, Ukrainian
Derived from the Slavic elements svetu "blessed, holy" and slava "glory". This was the name of a 10th-century ruler of Kievan Rus, the son of Igor and Olga, and the first to have a name of Slavic origin instead of Old Norse.
Syuzanna Сюзанна f Russian
Russian variant of Susanna.
Taisa Таиса f Russian, Ukrainian
Short form of Taisiya.
Taisia Таисия f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Таисия or Ukrainian Таїсія (see Taisiya).
Taisiya Таисия f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Thaïs (referring to the saint).
Tamara Тамара f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Hungarian, English, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Lithuanian, Georgian
Russian form of Tamar. Russian performers such as Tamara Karsavina (1885-1978), Tamara Drasin (1905-1943), Tamara Geva (1907-1997) and Tamara Toumanova (1919-1996) introduced it to the English-speaking world. It rapidly grew in popularity in the United States starting in 1957. Another famous bearer was the Polish cubist painter Tamara de Lempicka (1898-1980).
Tamila Тамила f Ukrainian, Russian
Possibly a variant of Tomila.
Tanya Таня f Russian, Bulgarian, English
Russian diminutive of Tatiana. It began to be used in the English-speaking world during the 1930s.
Taras Тарас m Ukrainian, Russian, Belarusian
Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian form of the Greek name Ταράσιος (Tarasios), which possibly means "from Taras". Taras was an Italian city, now called Taranto, which was founded by Greek colonists in the 8th century BC and was named for the Greek mythological figure Taras, a son of Poseidon. Saint Tarasios was an 8th-century bishop of Constantinople. It was also borne by the Ukrainian writer and artist Taras Shevchenko (1814-1861).
Tasha Таша f Russian, English
Short form of Natasha.
Tatiana Татьяна f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, French, Slovak, Polish, Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Greek, Georgian, English, Russian, Bulgarian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of the Roman name Tatianus, a derivative of the Roman name Tatius. This was the name of a 3rd-century saint who was martyred in Rome under the emperor Alexander Severus. She was especially venerated in Orthodox Christianity, and the name has been common in Russia (as Татьяна) and Eastern Europe. It was not regularly used in the English-speaking world until the 1980s.
Tatyana Татьяна f Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Tatiana.
Terenti Терентий m Georgian, Russian
Georgian form of Terentius (see Terence). It is also an alternate transcription of Russian Терентий (see Terentiy).
Terentiy Терентий m Russian
Russian form of Terentius (see Terence).
Tikhon Тихон m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Tychon.
Timofei Тимофей m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Тимофей (see Timofey).
Timofey Тимофей m Russian
Russian form of Timothy.
Timur Тимур m Tatar, Chechen, Kazakh, Uzbek, Turkish, Russian, History
From the Turkic and Mongol name Temür meaning "iron". This was the name of several Mongol, Turkic and Yuan leaders. A notable bearer was Timur, also known as Tamerlane (from Persian تیمور لنگ (Timur e Lang) meaning "Timur the lame"), a 14th-century Turkic leader who conquered large areas of Western Asia.
Tit Тит m Slovene, Russian (Rare)
Slovene and Russian form of Titus.
Tolya Толя m Russian
Diminutive of Anatoliy.
Toma 1 Тома f Russian
Diminutive of Tamara.
Tonya Тоня f English, Russian
English diminutive of Antonia or a Russian diminutive of Antonina. In the English-speaking world its use has likely been positively influenced by the name Tanya.
Trofim Трофим m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Trophimus.
Tsetsiliya Цецилия f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Cecilia.
Tyoma Тёма m Russian
Diminutive of Artyom.
Uliana Ульяна f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Ульяна or Ukrainian Уляна (see Ulyana).
Ulya Уля f Russian
Diminutive of Ulyana.
Ulyana Ульяна f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian form of Juliana.
Ustinya Устинья f Russian (Rare)
Russian variant form of Iustina (see Justina).
Vadik Вадик m Russian
Diminutive of Vadim.
Vadim Вадим m Russian
Meaning unknown. It is used as a Russian form of Bademus, but it may actually be derived from the Slavic name Vadimir or else from an Old Norse source.
Vadimir Вадимир m Russian (Rare)
Possibly from the Slavic elements vaditi "accuse" and miru "peace, world".
Valentin Валентин m French, Romanian, German, Czech, Russian, Bulgarian, Slovene, Croatian, Swedish, Danish, Finnish
Form of Valentinus (see Valentine 1) in several languages.
Valentina Валентина f Italian, Russian, Lithuanian, German, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene, Albanian, Romanian, Spanish, Greek, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Valentinus (see Valentine 1). A famous bearer was the Soviet cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova (1937-), who in 1963 became the first woman to visit space.
Valeri Валерий m Bulgarian, Georgian, Russian
Bulgarian and Georgian form of Valerius, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Валерий (see Valeriy).
Valerian Валериан m Russian, Georgian, Romanian, History
From the Roman cognomen Valerianus, which was itself derived from the Roman name Valerius. This was the name of a 3rd-century Roman emperor (Publius Licinius Valerianus) who was captured by the Persians. Several saints have also borne this name, including a 2nd-century martyr of Lyons.
Valeriy Валерий m Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian form of Valerius.
Valeriya Валерия f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian and Ukrainian feminine form of Valerius, as well as an alternate transcription of Belarusian Валерыя (see Valeryia).
Valery Валерий m Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Alternate transcription of Russian Валерий, Ukrainian Валерій or Belarusian Валерый (see Valeriy).
Valya Валя f & m Russian, Bulgarian
Diminutive of Valentina or Valentin.
Vanya Ваня m Russian
Diminutive of Ivan.
Varfolomei Варфоломей m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Варфоломей (see Varfolomey).
Varfolomey Варфоломей m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Bartholomew.
Varlaam Варлаам m Russian (Rare), Georgian (Rare)
Russian and Georgian form of Barlaam.
Varlam Варлам m Georgian, Russian (Rare)
Variant of Varlaam.
Varnava Варнава m Russian (Rare), Old Church Slavic
Russian form of Barnabas.
Varvara Варвара f Russian, Greek, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Russian, Greek, Bulgarian and Macedonian form of Barbara.
Varya Варя f Russian
Diminutive of Varvara.
Vasili Василий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Василий (see Vasiliy).
Vasilisa Василиса f Russian
Russian feminine form of Basil 1.
Vasiliy Василий m Russian
Russian form of Basil 1.
Vasily Василий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Василий (see Vasiliy).
Vaska Васька m & f Russian, Macedonian, Bulgarian
Russian diminutive of Vasiliy (masculine) or a Macedonian and Bulgarian diminutive of Vasilija (feminine).
Vassily Василий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Василий (see Vasiliy).
Vasya Вася m Russian
Diminutive of Vasiliy.
Vatslav Вацлав m Russian
Russian form of Václav.
Venera Венера f Sicilian, Russian, Bulgarian, Albanian
Form of Venus, from the genitive form Veneris. This name was borne by a 2nd-century saint who was martyred in Rome or Sicily.
Veniamin Вениамин m Russian, Greek
Russian and Greek form of Benjamin.
Venyamin Вениамин m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Вениамин (see Veniamin).
Vera 1 Вера f Russian, English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, Hungarian, Romanian, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Belarusian, Georgian
Means "faith" in Russian, though it is sometimes associated with the Latin word verus "true". It has been in general use in the English-speaking world since the late 19th century.
Verochka Верочка f Russian
Russian diminutive of Vera 1.
Veronika Вероника f Russian, Czech, Slovak, Ukrainian, German, Hungarian, Bulgarian, Slovene, Croatian, Macedonian, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Lithuanian, Latvian
Form of Veronica in several languages.
Verusha Веруша f Russian
Russian diminutive of Vera 1.
Verusya Веруся f Russian
Russian diminutive of Vera 1.
Vikenti Викентий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Викентий (see Vikentiy).
Vikentiy Викентий m Russian
Russian form of Vincent.
Viktor Виктор m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Estonian, German, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Russian, Ukrainian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Greek
Form of Victor used in various languages.
Viktoria Виктория f German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Greek, Georgian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Belarusian
German, Scandinavian and Greek variant of Victoria. It is also an alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Виктория or Ukrainian Вікторія (see Viktoriya) or Belarusian Вікторыя (see Viktoryia), as well as the usual Georgian transcription.
Viktoriia Виктория f Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Виктория or Ukrainian Вікторія (see Viktoriya).
Viktoriya Виктория f Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian form of Victoria, as well as an alternate transcription of Belarusian Вікторыя (see Viktoryia).
Vilen Вилен m Russian
Abbreviation of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, the name of the founder of the former Soviet state (see Vladimir and Lenin).
Violetta Виолетта f Italian, Russian, Hungarian
Italian, Russian and Hungarian form of Violet.
Vissarion Виссарион m Russian (Archaic), Greek
Russian form and Modern Greek transcription of Bessarion.
Vitali Виталий m Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Виталий or Ukrainian Віталій (see Vitaliy).
Vitalik Виталик m Russian, Ukrainian
Diminutive of Vitaliy.
Vitaliy Виталий m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Vitalis (see Vitale).
Vitaliya Виталия f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian feminine form of Vitalis (see Vitale).
Vitaly Виталий m Russian, Ukrainian
Alternate transcription of Russian Виталий or Ukrainian Віталій (see Vitaliy).
Vitold Витольд m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Witold.
Vitya Витя m Russian
Diminutive of Viktor.
Vlad Влад m Romanian, Russian, Medieval Slavic
Old short form of Vladislav and other Slavic names beginning with the element vladeti meaning "rule". Vlad Dracula, a 15th-century prince of Wallachia, was Bram Stoker's inspiration for the name of his vampire, Count Dracula.
Vladik Владик m Russian
Diminutive of Vladislav.
Vladilen Владилен m Russian
Contraction of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, the name of the founder of the former Soviet state (see Vladimir and Lenin).
Vladimir Владимир m Russian, Serbian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene, Albanian, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic element vladeti meaning "rule" combined with meru meaning "great, famous". The second element has also been associated with miru meaning "peace, world". This was the name of a 9th-century ruler of Bulgaria. It was also borne by an 11th-century grand prince of Kiev, Vladimir the Great, who is venerated as a saint because of his efforts to Christianize his realm. Other notable bearers include the revolutionary and first leader of the Soviet state Vladimir Ilyich Lenin (1870-1924), and the Russian president and prime minister Vladimir Putin (1952-).
Vladislav Владислав m Russian, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic elements vladeti "rule" and slava "glory".
Vladislava Владислава f Russian, Czech
Feminine form of Vladislav.
Vladlen Владлен m Russian
Contraction of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, the name of the founder of the former Soviet state (see Vladimir and Lenin).
Vladlena Владлена f Russian
Feminine form of Vladlen.
Vlas Влас m Russian
Russian form of Blaise.
Vlasi Власий m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Власий (see Vlasiy).
Vlasiy Власий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Blaise.
Volodya Володя m Russian
Diminutive of Vladimir.
Volya Воля m Russian (Rare)
Diminutive of Vsevolod. It also means "will, freedom" in Russian.
Vova Вова m Russian
Diminutive of Vladimir.
Vsevolod Всеволод m Russian, Ukrainian, Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic elements visi "all" and vladeti "rule". This was the name of an 11th-century grand prince of Kiev.
Vyacheslav Вячеслав m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Václav.
Wassily Василий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Василий (see Vasiliy).
Yakim Яким m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Joachim.
Yakov Яков m Hebrew, Russian, Bulgarian (Rare)
Russian and Bulgarian form of Jacob (or James), and an alternate transcription of Hebrew יַעֲקֹב (see Yaakov).
Yana Яна f Bulgarian, Russian, Ukrainian
Bulgarian, Russian and Ukrainian form of Jana 1.
Yanina Янина f Russian, Ukrainian
Diminutive of Yana.
Yarik Ярик m Russian
Russian diminutive of Yaroslav.
Yaropolk Ярополк m Medieval Slavic, Russian (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements yaru meaning "fierce, energetic" and pulku meaning "people, host". This name was borne by two rulers of Kievan Rus, in the 10th and 12th centuries.
Yaroslav Ярослав m Russian, Ukrainian, Medieval Slavic
Means "fierce and glorious", derived from the Slavic elements yaru meaning "fierce, energetic" and slava meaning "glory". Yaroslav the Wise was an 11th-century grand prince of Kiev who expanded Kievan Rus to its greatest extent.
Yaroslava Ярослава f Russian, Ukrainian, Medieval Slavic
Russian and Ukrainian feminine form of Yaroslav.
Yasha Яша m Russian
Russian diminutive of Yakov.
Yefim Ефим m Russian
Russian vernacular form of Euthymius.
Yefrem Ефрем m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Ephraim.
Yegor Егор m Russian
Russian form of George.
Yekaterina Екатерина f Russian
Russian form of Katherine.
Yelena Елена f Russian
Russian form of Helen.
Yelisey Елисей m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Elisha.
Yelizaveta Елизавета f Russian
Russian form of Elizabeth. This was the name of an 18th-century Russian empress.
Yemelyan Емельян m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Aemilianus (see Emiliano).
Yermolai Ермолай m Russian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Russian Ермолай (see Yermolay).
Yermolay Ермолай m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Hermolaos.
Yeseniya Есения f Russian
Russian form of Yesenia. The 1971 Mexican movie was extremely popular in the Soviet Union.
Yesfir Есфирь f Russian
Russian form of Esther.
Yeva Ева f Russian, Ukrainian, Armenian
Russian, Ukrainian and Armenian form of Eve.
Yevdokim Евдоким m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Eudokimos.
Yevdokiya Евдокия f Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Eudocia.
Yevfimiy Евфимий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Euthymius.
Yevfrosiniya Евфросиния f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Euphrosyne.
Yevgeni Евгений m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Евгений (see Yevgeniy).
Yevgeniy Евгений m Russian
Russian form of Eugene.
Yevgeniya Евгения f Russian
Russian form of Eugenia.
Yevgeny Евгений m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Евгений (see Yevgeniy).
Yevgraf Евграф m Russian (Archaic)
Russian form of Eugraphios.
Yevlogiy Евлогий m Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Eulogius.
Yevpraksiya Евпраксия f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Eupraxia. This was the name of a daughter of Vsevolod I, grand prince of Kiev, who became the wife of the Holy Roman emperor Henry IV.
Yudif Юдифь f Russian (Rare)
Russian form of Judith.
Yuli Юлий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Юлий (see Yuliy).
Yulia Юлия f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Alternate transcription of Russian Юлия or Ukrainian/Belarusian Юлія (see Yuliya).
Yulian Юлиан m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian and Bulgarian form of Julian.
Yuliana Юлиана f Russian, Bulgarian, Indonesian
Russian, Bulgarian and Indonesian form of Juliana.
Yulianna Юлианна f Russian
Russian form of Juliana.
Yuliy Юлий m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Julius.
Yuliya Юлия f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian and Bulgarian form of Julia.
Yura Юра m Russian, Ukrainian
Diminutive of Yuriy.
Yuri 1 Юрий m Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Alternate transcription of Russian Юрий, Ukrainian Юрій or Belarusian Юрый (see Yuriy).
Yuriy Юрий m Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian form of George. This name was borne by Yuriy Dolgorukiy, a 12th-century Grand Prince of Kiev. The Soviet cosmonaut Yuriy (or Yuri) Gagarin (1934-1968), the first man to travel to space, was another famous bearer of this name.
Yury Юрий m Russian, Belarusian
Alternate transcription of Russian Юрий or Belarusian Юрый (see Yuriy).
Yustina Юстина f Russian
Russian form of Iustina (see Justina).
Zakhar Захар m Russian
Russian form of Zacharias.
Zhanna Жанна f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian form of Jeanne.
Zhannochka Жанночка f Russian
Diminutive of Zhanna.
Zhenya Женя f & m Russian, Bulgarian
Russian diminutive of Yevgeniya or Yevgeniy or a Bulgarian diminutive of Evgeniya.
Zina Зина f Russian
Short form of Zinaida.
Zinaida Зинаида f Russian, Belarusian, Ukrainian
Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian form of Zenaida.
Zinoviy Зиновий m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of the Greek name Ζηνόβιος (Zenobios), the masculine form of Zenobia.
Zinoviya Зиновия f Russian (Rare), Ukrainian (Rare)
Russian and Ukrainian form of Zenobia.
Zinovy Зиновий m Russian
Alternate transcription of Russian Зиновий (see Zinoviy).
Zlata Злата f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Bulgarian, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian
Feminine form of Zlatan.
Zoya Зоя f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Bulgarian
Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian and Bulgarian form of Zoe.
Ada 1 f English, Italian, Spanish, German, Dutch, Norwegian, Polish, Hungarian, Finnish, Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names such as Adelaide or Adelina that begin with the element adal meaning "noble". Saint Ada was a 7th-century Frankish abbess at Le Mans. This name was also borne by Augusta Ada King (1815-1852), the Countess of Lovelace (known as Ada Lovelace), a daughter of Lord Byron. She was an assistant to Charles Babbage, the inventor of an early mechanical computer.
Adam m English, French, German, Polish, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Romanian, Catalan, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, Georgian, Biblical, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek, Biblical Hebrew
This is the Hebrew word for "man". It could be ultimately derived from Hebrew אדם ('adam) meaning "to be red", referring to the ruddy colour of human skin, or from Akkadian adamu meaning "to make".... [more]
Adela f English, Spanish, Romanian, Polish, Slovak, Germanic
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element adal meaning "noble" (Proto-Germanic *aþalaz). Saint Adela was a 7th-century Frankish princess who founded a monastery at Pfazel in France. This name was also borne by a daughter of William the Conqueror.
Adelajda f Polish
Polish form of Adelaide.
Adolf m German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Germanic
From the Old German name Adalwolf, which meant "noble wolf" from the elements adal "noble" and wolf. It was borne by several Swedish kings as a first or second name, most notably by Gustav II Adolf in the 17th century. Association with Adolf Hitler (1889-1945), the leader of the Nazi party in Germany during World War II, has lessened the use of this name.
Adrian m English, Romanian, Polish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Russian
Form of Hadrianus (see Hadrian) used in several languages. Several saints and six popes have borne this name, including the only English pope, Adrian IV, and the only Dutch pope, Adrian VI. As an English name, it has been in use since the Middle Ages, though it was not popular until modern times.
Adriana f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish, Slovak, Czech, Bulgarian, English, Dutch
Feminine form of Adrian. A famous bearer is the Brazilian model Adriana Lima (1981-).
Adrianna f English, Polish
Feminine form of Adrian.
Agata f Italian, Polish, Slovene, Russian, Croatian, Serbian, Swedish
Form of Agatha in various languages.
Agatka f Polish
Polish diminutive of Agata.
Agnieszka f Polish
Polish form of Agnes.
Albert m English, German, French, Catalan, Polish, Russian, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Romanian, Hungarian, Germanic
From the Germanic name Adalbert meaning "noble and bright", composed of the elements adal "noble" and beraht "bright". This name was common among medieval German royalty. The Normans introduced it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Æþelbeorht. Though it became rare in England by the 17th century, it was repopularized in the 19th century by the German-born Prince Albert, the husband of Queen Victoria.... [more]
Albin m Swedish, French, English, Slovene, Polish
Form of Albinus in several languages.
Albina f Russian, Ukrainian, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Slovene, Polish, German, Lithuanian, Belarusian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Albinus. This was the name of a few early saints, including a 3rd-century martyr from Caesarea.
Aldona f Lithuanian, Polish
Meaning unknown. This was the name of a 14th-century Polish queen, the daughter of a Grand Duke of Lithuania.
Aleks m & f Russian, Ukrainian, Slovene, Polish, Armenian
Short form of Aleksey, Aleksandr or Aleksandra.
Aleksander m Polish, Slovene, Estonian, Norwegian, Danish
Form of Alexander in several languages.
Aleksandra f Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Serbian, Bulgarian, Slovene, Croatian, Macedonian, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Georgian
Form of Alexandra in several languages.
Aleksy m Polish
Polish form of Alexis.
Alfred m English, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Polish, Dutch
Means "elf counsel", derived from the Old English name Ælfræd, composed of the elements ælf "elf" and ræd "counsel, advice". Alfred the Great was a 9th-century king of Wessex who fought unceasingly against the Danes living in northeast England. He was also a scholar, and he translated many Latin books into Old English. His fame helped to ensure the usage of this name even after the Norman Conquest, when most Old English names were replaced by Norman ones. It became rare by the end of the Middle Ages, but was revived in the 18th century.... [more]
Alfreda f English, Italian, Polish (Rare), German (Rare)
Feminine form of Alfred.
Alicja f Polish
Polish form of Alice.
Alina f Romanian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Slovene, German, Italian, Spanish
Short form of Adelina, Albina and names that end in alina.
Alojzy m Polish
Polish form of Aloysius.
Amadeusz m Polish
Polish form of Amadeus.
Ambroży m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Ambrosius (see Ambrose).
Amelia f English, Spanish, Italian, Polish, Medieval French
Variant of Amalia, though it is sometimes confused with Emilia, which has a different origin. The name became popular in England after the German House of Hanover came to the British throne in the 18th century — it was borne by daughters of both George II and George III. The author Henry Fielding used it for the title character in his novel Amelia (1751). Another famous bearer was Amelia Earhart (1897-1937), the first woman to make a solo flight over the Atlantic Ocean.... [more]
Anastazja f Polish
Polish form of Anastasia.
Anastazy m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Anastasius.
Anatol m Polish, Belarusian
Polish and Belarusian form of Anatolius.
Andrzej m Polish
Polish form of Andrew.
Andżelika f Polish
Polish variant of Angelika.
Aneta f Polish, Czech, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Polish, Czech, Bulgarian and Macedonian diminutive of Anna.
Angelika f German, Polish, Hungarian
Form of Angelica in several languages.
Ania f Polish, Russian
Polish diminutive of Anna, and an alternate transcription of Russian Аня (see Anya).
Aniela f Polish
Polish form of Angela.
Anielka f Polish (Rare), Central American
Polish diminutive of Aniela. This name has become particularly popular in Nicaragua, though a connection to the Polish name is not clear.
Anika 1 f German, Dutch, Danish, Polish, Slovene
Diminutive of Anna or Ana.
Anita 1 f Spanish, Portuguese, Croatian, Slovene, English, Dutch, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Polish, Latvian, Hungarian
Spanish, Portuguese, Croatian and Slovene diminutive of Ana.
Anka f Polish, Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Diminutive of Anna.
Anna f English, Italian, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Greek, Hungarian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Armenian, Icelandic, Faroese, Catalan, Occitan, Breton, Scottish Gaelic, Biblical, Old Church Slavic, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek
Form of Channah (see Hannah) used in the Greek and Latin Old Testament. Many later Old Testament translations, including the English, use the Hannah spelling instead of Anna. The name appears briefly in the New Testament belonging to a prophetess who recognized Jesus as the Messiah. It was a popular name in the Byzantine Empire from an early date, and in the Middle Ages it became common among Western Christians due to veneration of Saint Anna (usually known as Saint Anne in English), the name traditionally assigned to the mother of the Virgin Mary.... [more]
Antoni m Polish, Catalan
Polish and Catalan form of Antonius (see Anthony).
Antonina f Italian, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Antoninus.
Apolinary m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Apollinaris.
Apolonia f Spanish, Polish
Spanish and Polish form of Apollonia.
Arek m Polish
Diminutive of Arkadiusz.
Ariadna f Spanish, Catalan, Russian, Polish
Spanish, Catalan, Russian and Polish form of Ariadne.
Ariel m & f Hebrew, English, French, Spanish, Polish, Biblical, Biblical Greek
Means "lion of God" in Hebrew, from אֲרִי ('ari) meaning "lion" and אֵל ('el) meaning "God". In the Old Testament it is used as another name for the city of Jerusalem. Shakespeare used it as the name of a spirit in his play The Tempest (1611), and one of the moons of Uranus bears this name in his honour. As an English name, it became more common for females in the 1980s, especially after it was used for the title character in the Disney film The Little Mermaid (1989).
Arkadiusz m Polish
Polish form of Arkadios.
Arnold m English, German, Dutch, Polish, Germanic
From a Germanic name meaning "eagle power", derived from the elements arn "eagle" and walt "power, authority". The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Earnweald. It died out as an English name after the Middle Ages, but it was revived in the 19th century.... [more]
Aron m Polish, Croatian, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic
Polish, Croatian and Scandinavian form of Aaron.
Artur m Portuguese, Galician, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, German, Estonian, Swedish, Albanian, Armenian
Form of Arthur in several languages.
Asia 2 f Polish
Polish diminutive of Joanna.
August m German, Polish, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Catalan, English
German, Polish, Scandinavian and Catalan form of Augustus. This was the name of three Polish kings.... [more]
Augustyn m Polish
Polish form of Augustinus (see Augustine 1).
Augustyna f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Augustina.
Aurelia f Ancient Roman, Romanian, Italian, Spanish, Polish
Feminine form of Aurelius.
Aureliusz m Polish
Polish form of Aurelius.
Balbina f Spanish, Portuguese (Rare), Polish (Rare), Italian (Rare), Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Balbinus. Saint Balbina was a 2nd-century Roman woman martyred with her father Quirinus.
Barbara f English, Italian, French, German, Polish, Hungarian, Slovene, Croatian, Dutch, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Late Roman
Derived from Greek βάρβαρος (barbaros) meaning "foreign". According to legend, Saint Barbara was a young woman killed by her father Dioscorus, who was then killed by a bolt of lightning. She is the patron of architects, geologists, stonemasons and artillerymen. Because of her renown, the name came into general use in the Christian world in the Middle Ages. In England it became rare after the Protestant Reformation, but it was revived in the 19th century.
Barnaba m Italian (Rare), Polish (Rare)
Italian and Polish form of Barnabas.
Bartek m Polish
Polish diminutive of Bartłomiej or Bartosz.
Bartłomiej m Polish
Polish form of Bartholomew.
Bartosz m Polish
Polish form of Bartholomew.
Basia 1 f Polish
Polish diminutive of Barbara.
Bazyli m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Basil 1.
Beata f Polish, German, Swedish, Danish, Late Roman
Derived from Latin beatus meaning "blessed". This was the name of a few minor saints.
Beatrycze f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Beatrix.
Benedykt m Polish
Polish form of Benedictus (see Benedict).
Benedykta f Polish (Rare)
Polish feminine form of Benedict.
Beniamin m Romanian, Polish, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek
Romanian and Polish form of Benjamin, as well as the form used in the Greek and Latin Bibles.
Bernadeta f Polish
Polish form of Bernadette.
Bernadetta f Polish
Polish form of Bernadette.
Bernard m English, French, Dutch, Polish, Croatian, Slovene, Czech, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element bern "bear" combined with hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Beornheard. This was the name of several saints, including Saint Bernard of Menthon who built hospices in the Swiss Alps in the 10th century, and Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, a 12th-century theologian and Doctor of the Church. Other famous bearers include the Irish playwright and essayist George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950) and the British World War II field marshal Bernard Montgomery (1887-1976).
Berta f Polish, Czech, Hungarian, German, Spanish, Catalan, Italian, Slovene
Form of Bertha in several languages.
Bianka f German, Hungarian, Polish
German, Hungarian and Polish form of Bianca.
Blanka f Czech, Slovak, Polish, Hungarian, Croatian, Slovene
Form of Blanche in several languages.
Błażej m Polish
Polish form of Blaise.
Bogdan m Polish, Russian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Romanian, Medieval Slavic
Means "given by God" from the Slavic elements bogu "god" and dan "given".
Bogdana f Bulgarian, Slovene, Romanian, Polish, Serbian, Medieval Slavic
Feminine form of Bogdan.
Bogna f Polish
Polish diminutive of Bogdana and other names beginning with Bog.
Bogumił m Polish
Means "favoured by God" from the Slavic elements bogu "god" and milu "gracious, dear".
Bogumiła f Polish
Feminine form of Bogumił.
Bogusław m Polish
Means "glory of God" from the Slavic elements bogu "god" and slava "glory". This name was borne by several dukes of Pomerania, beginning in the 12th century.
Bogusława f Polish
Feminine form of Bogusław.
Bohdan m Czech, Slovak, Ukrainian, Polish
Czech, Slovak and Ukrainian form of Bogdan, as well as a Polish variant.
Bolek m Polish
Diminutive of Bolesław.
Bolesław m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements bolye "more, greater" and slava "glory". This was the name of kings of Poland, starting in the 11th century with the first Polish king Bolesław the Brave.
Bolesława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Bolesław.
Bonifacy m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Bonifatius (see Boniface).
Borys m Polish, Ukrainian
Polish and Ukrainian form of Boris.
Bożena f Polish
Polish cognate of Božena.
Bożydar m Polish
Polish cognate of Božidar.
Brajan m Polish (Modern)
Polish form of Brian.
Bratumił m Polish (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements bratu "brother" and milu "gracious, dear".
Bronimir m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Branimir.
Bronisław m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements borna "protection" and slava "glory". A famous Polish anthropologist, Bronisław Malinowski (1884-1942), has borne this name.
Bronisława f Polish
Feminine form of Bronisław.
Bruno m German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Croatian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Latvian, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element brunna meaning "armour, protection" (Proto-Germanic *brunjǭ) or brun meaning "brown" (Proto-Germanic *brūnaz). Saint Bruno of Cologne was a German monk of the 11th century who founded the Carthusian Order. The surname has belonged to Giordano Bruno, a philosopher burned at the stake by the Inquisition. A modern bearer is the American singer Bruno Mars (1985-), born Peter Gene Hernandez.
Brygida f Polish
Polish form of Bridget.
Cecylia f Polish
Polish form of Cecilia.
Celestyn m Polish
Polish form of Caelestinus.
Celestyna f Polish
Polish feminine form of Caelestinus.
Celina f Polish, Portuguese, German
Feminine form of Caelinus. This name can also function as a short form of Marcelina.
Cezary m Polish
Polish form of Caesar.
Cibor m Polish (Rare)
Variant of Czcibor.
Cyprian m Polish, English (Rare)
From the Roman family name Cyprianus, which meant "from Cyprus". Saint Cyprian was a 3rd-century bishop of Carthage and a martyr under the emperor Valerian.
Cyryl m Polish
Polish form of Cyril.
Czcibor m Polish (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements chisti "honour" and borti "battle".
Czesław m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements chisti "honour" and slava "glory".
Czesława f Polish
Feminine form of Czesław.
Dagmara f Polish
Polish form of Dagmar.
Damian m English, Polish, Romanian, Dutch (Modern)
From the Greek name Δαμιανός (Damianos), which was derived from Greek δαμάζω (damazo) meaning "to tame". Saint Damian was martyred with his twin brother Cosmas in Syria early in the 4th century. They are the patron saints of physicians. Due to his renown, the name came into general use in Christian Europe. Another saint by this name was Peter Damian, an 11th-century cardinal and theologian from Italy.
Daniel m English, Hebrew, French, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, Romanian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Croatian, Finnish, Estonian, Armenian, Georgian, Biblical, Biblical Greek
From the Hebrew name דָּנִיֵּאל (Daniyyel) meaning "God is my judge", from the roots דִּין (din) meaning "to judge" and אֵל ('el) meaning "God". Daniel was a Hebrew prophet whose story is told in the Book of Daniel in the Old Testament. He lived during the Jewish captivity in Babylon, where he served in the court of the king, rising to prominence by interpreting the king's dreams. The book also presents Daniel's four visions of the end of the world.... [more]
Daniela f Italian, German, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Romanian, Portuguese, Spanish, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Hebrew, English
Feminine form of Daniel.
Danka f Serbian, Slovak, Polish
Diminutive of Danijela, Daniela or Danuta.
Danuta f Polish
Polish form of Danutė.
Darek m Polish
Diminutive of Dariusz.
Daria f Italian, Polish, Romanian, English, Croatian, Russian, Late Roman
Feminine form of Darius. Saint Daria was a 3rd-century woman who was martyred with her husband Chrysanthus under the Roman emperor Numerian. It has never been a particularly common English given name. As a Russian name, it is more commonly transcribed Darya.
Dariusz m Polish
Polish form of Darius.
Dawid m Polish, Biblical Hebrew
Polish form of David, as well as the Biblical Hebrew form.
Diana f English, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Catalan, German, Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Estonian, Lithuanian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Armenian, Georgian, Roman Mythology
Means "divine, goddesslike", a derivative of dia or diva meaning "goddess". It is ultimately related to the same Indo-European root *dyew- found in Zeus. Diana was a Roman goddess of the moon, hunting, forests and childbirth, often identified with the Greek goddess Artemis.... [more]
Dobrogost m Polish (Rare), Medieval Slavic
Derived from the Slavic elements dobru "good" and gosti "guest".
Dobromił m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Dobromil.
Dobromiła f Polish
Polish feminine form of Dobromil.
Dobrosław m Polish
Polish form of Dobroslav.
Dobrosława f Polish
Polish feminine form of Dobroslav.
Dominik m German, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Polish, Hungarian, Croatian
Form of Dominic used in various languages.
Dominika f Slovak, Czech, Polish, Hungarian, Slovene, Russian
Feminine form of Dominic.
Donat m Polish, French (Rare)
Polish and French form of Donatus (see Donato).
Donata f Italian, Polish, Lithuanian, Late Roman
Feminine form of Donatus (see Donato).
Dorota f Polish, Czech, Slovak
Polish, Czech and Slovak form of Dorothea.
Dosia f Polish
Diminutive of Teodozja or Dorota.
Dymitr m Polish (Archaic)
Polish form of Demetrius.
Edmund m English, German, Polish
Means "rich protection", from the Old English elements ead "wealth, fortune" and mund "protection". This was the name of two Anglo-Saxon kings of England. It was also borne by two saints, including a 9th-century king of East Anglia who, according to tradition, was shot to death with arrows after refusing to divide his Christian kingdom with an invading pagan Danish leader. This Old English name remained in use after the Norman Conquest (even being used by King Henry III for one of his sons), though it became less common after the 15th century.... [more]
Edward m English, Polish
Means "rich guard", derived from the Old English elements ead "wealth, fortune" and weard "guard". This was the name of several Anglo-Saxon kings, the last being Saint Edward the Confessor shortly before the Norman Conquest in the 11th century. He was known as a just ruler, and because of his popularity his name remained in use after the conquest when most other Old English names were replaced by Norman ones. The 13th-century Plantagenet king Henry III named his son and successor after the saint, and seven subsequent kings of England were also named Edward.... [more]
Edyta f Polish
Polish form of Edith.
Ela 1 f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Polish
Diminutive of names beginning with El such as Elizabeta or Elżbieta.
Eleonora f Italian, German, Swedish, Latvian, Dutch, Polish, Bulgarian, Russian, Ukrainian, Greek
Form of Eleanor in several languages.
Eliasz m Polish
Polish form of Elijah.
Eligia f Spanish, Polish (Rare), Late Roman
Feminine form of Eligius.
Eligiusz m Polish
Polish form of Eligius.
Eliza f English, Polish, Portuguese (Brazilian), Romanian, Hungarian, Georgian
Short form of Elizabeth. It was borne by the character Eliza Doolittle in George Bernard Shaw's play Pygmalion (1913) and the subsequent musical adaptation My Fair Lady (1956).
Elwira f Polish
Polish form of Elvira.
Elżbieta f Polish
Polish form of Elizabeth.
Emil m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Romanian, Bulgarian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Russian, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Hungarian, Icelandic, English
From the Roman family name Aemilius, which was derived from Latin aemulus meaning "rival".
Emilia f Italian, Spanish, Romanian, Finnish, Polish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, English, Bulgarian
Feminine form of Aemilius (see Emily).
Emilian m Romanian, Polish
Romanian and Polish form of Aemilianus (see Emiliano).
Ernest m English, French, Catalan, Polish, Slovak, Slovene
Derived from Old High German ernust meaning "serious, earnest". It was introduced to England by the German House of Hanover when they inherited the British throne in the 18th century, though it did not become common until the following century. The American author and adventurer Ernest Hemingway (1899-1961) was a famous bearer of the name. It was also used by Oscar Wilde for a character in his comedy The Importance of Being Earnest (1895).
Erwin m German, Dutch, Polish, Germanic
Derived from the Old German name Hariwini, composed of the elements heri "army" and wini "friend". It may have merged somewhat with the name Eberwin. A notable bearer was Erwin Schrödinger (1887-1961), an Austrian physicist who made contributions to quantum theory.
Eryk m Polish
Polish form of Eric.
Estera f Polish, Slovak, Romanian, Lithuanian
Polish, Slovak, Romanian and Lithuanian form of Esther.
Eugenia f Italian, Spanish, Romanian, Polish, English, Ancient Greek (Latinized)
Feminine form of Eugenius (see Eugene). It was borne by a semi-legendary 3rd-century saint who escaped persecution by disguising herself as a man. The name was occasionally found in England during the Middle Ages, but it was not regularly used until the 19th century.
Eugeniusz m Polish
Polish form of Eugenius (see Eugene).
Eulalia f Spanish, Italian, Polish, English, Ancient Greek
Derived from Greek εὔλαλος (eulalos) meaning "sweetly-speaking", itself from εὖ (eu) meaning "good" and λαλέω (laleo) meaning "to talk". This was the name of an early 4th-century saint and martyr from Mérida in Spain. Another martyr by this name, living at the same time, is a patron saint of Barcelona. These two saints might be the same person.
Eunika f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Eunice.
Eustachy m Polish (Archaic)
Polish form of Eustachius (see Eustace).
Ewa f Polish
Polish form of Eve.
Ewelina f Polish
Polish form of Evelina.
Fabian m German, Dutch, Polish, Romanian, English
From the Roman cognomen Fabianus, which was derived from Fabius. Saint Fabian was a 3rd-century pope.
Felicja f Polish
Polish form of Felicia.
Felicjan m Polish
Polish form of Felicianus (see Feliciano).
Felicyta f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Felicitas.
Feliks m Russian, Slovene, Polish
Russian, Slovene and Polish form of Felix.
Ferdynand m Polish
Polish form of Ferdinand.
Filip m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Polish, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Romanian, Finnish
Form of Philip in various languages.
Filipina f Polish (Rare)
Polish feminine form of Filip.
Florian m German, French, Romanian, Polish, History
From the Roman cognomen Florianus, a derivative of Florus. This was the name of a short-lived Roman emperor of the 3rd century, Marcus Annius Florianus. It was also borne by Saint Florian, a martyr of the 3rd century, the patron saint of Poland and Upper Austria.
Franciszek m Polish
Polish form of Franciscus (see Francis).
Franciszka f Polish
Polish feminine form of Franciscus (see Francis).
Fryderyk m Polish
Polish form of Frederick.
Fryderyka f Polish (Rare)
Polish feminine form of Frederick.
Gabriel m French, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Catalan, English, Romanian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Georgian, Biblical, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek
From the Hebrew name גַבְרִיאֵל (Gavri'el) meaning "God is my strong man", derived from גֶּבֶר (gever) meaning "strong man, hero" and אֵל ('el) meaning "God". Gabriel is an archangel in Hebrew tradition, often appearing as a messenger of God. In the Old Testament he is sent to interpret the visions of the prophet Daniel, while in the New Testament he serves as the announcer of the births of John to Zechariah and Jesus to Mary. According to Islamic tradition he was the angel who dictated the Quran to Muhammad.... [more]
Gabriela f Portuguese, Polish, Romanian, Spanish, German, Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Bulgarian
Feminine form of Gabriel.
Gaja 1 f Slovene, Polish
Either a form of Gaia or a feminine form of Gaius.
Gaweł m Polish
Polish form of Gallus.
Genowefa f Polish
Polish form of Geneviève.
Gerard m English, Dutch, Catalan, Polish
Derived from the Old German element ger meaning "spear" combined with hart meaning "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This name was borne by saints from Belgium, Germany, Hungary and Italy. The Normans introduced it to Britain. It was initially much more common there than the similar name Gerald, with which it was often confused, but it is now less common.
Gertruda f Polish, Czech
Polish and Czech form of Gertrude.
Gerwazy m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Gervasius.
Gosia f Polish
Diminutive of Małgorzata.
Gracja f Polish
Polish form of Gracia.
Gracjan m Polish
Polish form of Gratianus (see Gratian).
Grażyna f Polish
From Lithuanian graži meaning "beautiful". This name was created by Polish poet Adam Mickiewicz for his poem Grażyna (1823).
Greta f German, Italian, Swedish, Lithuanian, Polish, English
Short form of Margareta. A famous bearer of this name was the Swedish actress Greta Garbo (1905-1990).
Grzegorz m Polish
Polish form of Gregory.
Gustaw m Polish
Polish form of Gustav.
Halina f Polish, Belarusian
Polish and Belarusian form of Galina.
Halinka f Polish
Diminutive of Halina.
Hania 1 f Polish
Polish diminutive of Hanna 1.
Hanna 1 f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Polish, Ukrainian, Belarusian, German, Dutch, Icelandic, Hungarian, Hebrew
Form of Channah (see Hannah) in several languages.
Helena f German, Dutch, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Portuguese, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Finnish, Estonian, Slovene, Croatian, Sorbian, English, Ancient Greek (Latinized), Greek Mythology (Latinized)
Latinate form of Helen.
Helenka f Czech, Polish
Czech and Polish diminutive of Helena.
Henryk m Polish
Polish form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Henryka f Polish
Polish feminine form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Hieronim m Polish
Polish form of Hieronymos (see Jerome).
Hipolit m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Hippolytos.
Honorata f Late Roman, Polish
Feminine form of Honoratus.
Hubert m English, German, Dutch, French, Polish, Germanic
Means "bright heart", derived from the Old German elements hugu "mind, thought, spirit" and beraht "bright". Saint Hubert was an 8th-century bishop of Maastricht who is considered the patron saint of hunters. The Normans brought the name to England, where it replaced an Old English cognate Hygebeorht. It died out during the Middle Ages but was revived in the 19th century.
Ida f English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Italian, French, Polish, Finnish, Hungarian, Slovak, Slovene, Germanic
Derived from the Germanic element id possibly meaning "work, labour" (Proto-Germanic *idiz). The Normans brought this name to England, though it eventually died out there in the Middle Ages. It was strongly revived in the 19th century, in part due to the heroine in Alfred Tennyson's poem The Princess (1847), which was later adapted into the play Princess Ida (1884) by Gilbert and Sullivan.... [more]
Idalia f Germanic (Latinized), Greek Mythology, Polish (Rare)
Probably from a Germanic name derived from the element idal, an extended form of id possibly meaning "work, labour". Unrelated, this was also an epithet of the Greek goddess Aphrodite, given because the city of Idalion on Cyprus was a center of her cult.... [more]
Iga f Polish
Diminutive of Jadwiga or Ignacja.
Ignacja f Polish (Rare)
Polish feminine form of Ignatius.
Ignacy m Polish
Polish form of Ignatius.
Igor m Russian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Slovak, Czech, Italian, Portuguese
Russian form of the Old Norse name Yngvarr (see Ingvar). The Varangians brought it with them when they began settling in eastern Europe in the 9th century. It was borne by two grand princes of Kiev, notably Igor I the son of Rurik and the wife of Saint Olga. Other famous bearers include Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971), a Russian composer known for The Rite of Spring, and Igor Sikorsky (1889-1972), the Russian-American designer of the first successful helicopter.
Ilona f Hungarian, German, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Czech
Possibly a Hungarian form of Helen, via a Slavic form. In Finland it is associated with the word ilona, a derivative of ilo "joy".
Inga f Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, German, Polish, Russian, Old Norse, Germanic
Strictly feminine form of Inge.
Irek 2 m Polish
Diminutive of Ireneusz.
Irena f Polish, Czech, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Albanian, Bulgarian, Slovak, Lithuanian
Form of Irene in several languages.
Ireneusz m Polish
Polish form of Irenaeus.
Irenka f Polish, Czech
Polish and Czech diminutive of Irena.
Irmina f Polish
Diminutive of Irma.
Iwan m Welsh, Polish
Modern Welsh form of Ieuan, a medieval Welsh form of Iohannes (see John). It is also a Polish form of Ivan.
Iwo m Polish
Polish form of Ivo 1.
Iwona f Polish
Polish feminine form of Yvon.
Iza f Polish
Short form of Izabela.
Izaak m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Isaac.
Izabela f Polish
Polish form of Isabella.
Izabella f Hungarian, Polish
Hungarian and Polish form of Isabella.
Izolda f Georgian, Russian, Hungarian, Polish (Rare)
Georgian, Russian, Hungarian and Polish form of Iseult.
Izydor m Polish
Polish form of Isidore.
Jacek m Polish
Modern form of Jacenty.
Jacenty m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Hyacinthus. Saint Jacenty was a 13th-century Dominican monk from Krakow who was said to have taken missionary journeys throughout northern Europe and Asia.
Jadwiga f Polish
Polish form of Hedwig. This was the name of a 14th-century ruling queen of Poland who has recently been canonized as a saint.
Jadzia f Polish
Diminutive of Jadwiga.
Jaga f Croatian, Serbian, Polish
Croatian, Serbian and Polish diminutive of Agatha, Jagoda, Jadwiga and other names containing ja.
Jagienka f Polish
Diminutive of Jagna.
Jagna f Polish
Originally a diminutive of Agnieszka, Agata or Jadwiga. It is now used independently.
Jagoda f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Polish
Means "strawberry" in South Slavic, and "berry" in Polish. Also in Poland, this can be a diminutive of Jadwiga.
Jagusia f Polish (Rare)
Diminutive of Jaga.
Jakub m Polish, Czech, Slovak
Polish, Czech and Slovak form of Jacob (or James). In Polish and Slovak this refers to both the Old Testament patriarch and the New Testament apostles, while in Czech this is used only for the apostles (with Jákob for the patriarch).
Jan 1 m Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Czech, Polish, Slovene, German, Catalan, Sorbian
Form of Johannes used in various languages. This name was borne by the 15th-century Flemish painter Jan van Eyck and the 17th-century Dutch painters Jan Vermeer and Jan Steen.
Janek m Estonian, Polish, Czech
Estonian, Polish and Czech diminutive of Jaan or Jan 1.
Janina f Polish, Finnish, Lithuanian, German, Swedish
Latinate form of Jeannine.
Janka f Slovak, Czech, Hungarian, Sorbian, Polish
Feminine diminutive form of Ján, Jan 1 or János.
Janusz m Polish
Polish variant of Jan 1, originally a medieval diminutive but now used independently.
Jarek m Polish, Czech
Diminutive of Slavic names beginning with the element yaru meaning "fierce, strong", such as Jarosław or Jaroslav.
Jarogniew m Polish (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements yaru meaning "fierce, energetic" and gnyevu meaning "anger".
Jaromir m Polish
Polish form of Jaromír.
Jaropełk m Polish (Archaic)
Polish form of Yaropolk.
Jarosław m Polish
Polish form of Yaroslav.
Jarosława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Jarosław.
Jędrzej m Polish
Old Polish form of Andrew.
Jeremi m Polish
Polish form of Jeremiah.
Jeremiasz m Polish
Polish form of Jeremiah.
Jerzy m Polish
Polish form of George.
Joachim m German, French, Polish, Judeo-Christian-Islamic Legend
Contracted form of Jehoiachin or Jehoiakim. According to the apocryphal Gospel of James, Saint Joachim was the husband of Saint Anne and the father of the Virgin Mary. Due to his popularity in the Middle Ages, the name came into general use in Christian Europe (though it was never common in England).
Joanna f English, Polish, Biblical
English and Polish form of Latin Iohanna, which was derived from Greek Ἰωάννα (Ioanna), the feminine form of Ioannes (see John). This is the spelling used in the English New Testament, where it belongs to a follower of Jesus who is regarded as a saint. In the Middle Ages in England it was used as a Latinized form of Joan (the usual feminine form of John) and it became common as a given name in the 19th century.
Joasia f Polish
Polish diminutive of Joanna.
Jola f Polish
Short form of Jolanta.
Jolanta f Polish, Lithuanian, Latvian
Polish, Lithuanian and Latvian form of Yolanda.
Jonatan m Spanish, Polish, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German (Rare)
Spanish and Polish form of Jonathan, as well as a Scandinavian and German variant form.
Jowita f Polish
Polish form of Jovita.
Jozafat m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Josaphat. This was the name of a 17th-century Polish saint and martyr who attempted to reconcile the Catholic and Eastern Churches.
Józef m Polish
Polish form of Joseph.
Józefa f Polish
Polish feminine form of Joseph.
Józefina f Polish
Polish form of Joséphine.
Judyta f Polish
Polish form of Judith.
Julek m Polish
Diminutive of Juliusz or Julian.
Julia f English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Spanish, Polish, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Ukrainian, Ancient Roman, Biblical
Feminine form of the Roman family name Julius. Among the notable women from this family were Julia Augusta (also known as Livia Drusilla), the wife of Emperor Augustus, and Julia the Elder, the daughter of Augustus and the wife of Tiberius. A person by this name has a brief mention in the New Testament. It was also borne by a few early saints and martyrs, including the patron saint of Corsica. Additionally, Shakespeare used it in his comedy The Two Gentlemen of Verona (1594).... [more]
Julian m English, Polish, German
From the Roman name Iulianus, which was derived from Julius. This was the name of the last pagan Roman emperor, Julian the Apostate (4th century). It was also borne by several early saints, including the legendary Saint Julian the Hospitaller. This name has been used in England since the Middle Ages, at which time it was also a feminine name (from Juliana, eventually becoming Gillian).
Julianna f Hungarian, Polish, English
Feminine form of Iulianus (see Julian).
Julita f Polish
Polish form of Julitta.
Juliusz m Polish
Polish form of Julius.
Jurek m Polish
Diminutive of Jerzy.
Justyn m Polish
Polish form of Iustinus (see Justin).
Justyna f Polish
Polish form of Iustina (see Justina).
Kacper m Polish
Polish form of Jasper.
Kaja 2 f Polish, Slovene
Variant of Gaja 1.
Kajetan m Polish
Polish form of Caietanus (see Gaetano).
Kalina f Bulgarian, Macedonian, Polish
Means "viburnum tree" in Bulgarian, Macedonian and Polish.
Kamil 2 m Czech, Slovak, Polish
Czech, Slovak and Polish form of Camillus.
Kamila f Czech, Slovak, Polish
Czech, Slovak and Polish form of Camilla.
Kamilla f Russian, Hungarian, Polish, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish
Russian and Hungarian form of Camilla, as well as a Polish and Scandinavian variant. This is also the Hungarian word for the chamomile flower (species Matricaria chamomilla).
Karina f Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Polish, German, Russian, English, Latvian, Spanish
Elaborated form of Karin.
Karol m Polish, Slovak, Slovene
Polish, Slovak and Slovene form of Karl.
Karola f German, Hungarian, Polish
German, Hungarian and Polish feminine form of Carolus.
Karolina f Polish, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Hungarian, Slovene, Croatian, Macedonian, Lithuanian, German
Feminine form of Carolus.
Kasandra f English (Modern), Polish
English variant and Polish form of Cassandra.
Kasia f Polish
Diminutive of Katarzyna.
Katarzyna f Polish
Polish form of Katherine.
Kazia f Polish
Short form of Kazimiera.
Kazik m Polish
Diminutive of Kazimierz.
Kazimiera f Polish, Lithuanian
Feminine form of Kazimierz (Polish) or Kazimieras (Lithuanian).
Kazimierz m Polish
Polish form of Casimir.
Kewin m Polish (Modern)
Polish form of Kevin.
Kinga f Polish, Hungarian
Polish and Hungarian diminutive of Kunigunde.
Klara f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, German, Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian
Form of Clara in various languages.
Klaudia f Polish, Slovak, Hungarian, Albanian, German
Polish, Slovak, Hungarian and Albanian feminine form of Claudius, as well as a German variant form.
Klaudiusz m Polish
Polish form of Claudius.
Klemens m German, Polish
German and Polish form of Clemens (see Clement). Prince Klemens Metternich was a 19th-century Austrian chancellor who guided the Austrian Empire to victory in the Napoleonic Wars.
Klementyna f Polish
Polish form of Clementina.
Klotylda f Polish (Rare), Czech (Rare)
Polish and Czech form of Clotilde.
Kondrat m Polish (Archaic)
Archaic Polish form of Conrad.
Konrad m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Polish, Slovene
German, Scandinavian, Polish and Slovene form of Conrad.
Konstancja f Polish
Polish form of Constantia.
Konstanty m Polish
Polish form of Constantine.
Konstantyn m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Constantine.
Kornel m Polish, Slovak
Polish and Slovak form of Cornelius.
Kornelia f German, Polish
German and Polish form of Cornelia.
Krysia f Polish
Short form of Krystyna.
Kryspin m Polish
Polish form of Crispin.
Krystian m Polish
Polish form of Christian.
Krystiana f Polish (Rare)
Polish variant of Christina.
Krystyn m Polish (Rare)
Polish variant of Christian.
Krystyna f Polish
Polish form of Christina.
Krzesimir m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Krešimir.
Krzyś m Polish
Diminutive of Krzysztof.
Krzysiek m Polish
Diminutive of Krzysztof.
Krzysztof m Polish
Polish form of Christopher.
Krzysztofa f Polish
Feminine form of Krzysztof.
Ksawery m Polish
Polish form of Xavier.
Ksenia f Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Polish form of Xenia, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian Ксения or Ukrainian/Belarusian Ксенія (see Kseniya).
Kuba m Polish
Polish diminutive of Jakub.
Kunegunda f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Kunigunde. The 13th-century Saint Kunegunda was the daughter of Bela IV, king of Hungary. She married Boleslaus V of Poland, but after his death refused to assume power and instead became a nun.
Larysa f Ukrainian, Belarusian, Polish
Ukrainian, Belarusian and Polish form of Larisa.
Laura f English, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Catalan, French, Finnish, Estonian, Hungarian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Czech, Slovak, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Lithuanian, Latvian, Late Roman
Feminine form of the Late Latin name Laurus, which meant "laurel". This meaning was favourable, since in ancient Rome the leaves of laurel trees were used to create victors' garlands. The name was borne by the 9th-century Spanish martyr Saint Laura, who was a nun thrown into a vat of molten lead by the Moors. It was also the name of the subject of poems by the 14th-century Italian poet Petrarch.... [more]
Lech m Polish, Slavic Mythology
From the name of the Slavic tribe the Lendians, called the Lędzianie in Polish. According to Slavic legend this was the name of the founder of the Polish people. A famous bearer was the Polish president Lech Wałęsa (1943-).
Lechosław m Polish
Derived from the Polish name Lech combined with the Slavic element slava meaning "glory".
Lechosława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Lechosław.
Lena f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Polish, Finnish, Russian, Ukrainian, English, Italian, Portuguese, Greek, Georgian, Armenian
Short form of names ending in lena, such as Helena, Magdalena or Yelena.
Leokadia f Polish
Polish form of Leocadia.
Leon m English, German, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Dutch, Ancient Greek
Derived from Greek λέων (leon) meaning "lion". During the Christian era this Greek name was merged with the Latin cognate Leo, with the result that the two forms are used somewhat interchangeably across European languages. In England during the Middle Ages this was a common name among Jews. A famous bearer was Leon Trotsky (1879-1940), a Russian Communist revolutionary.
Leonard m English, Dutch, German, Polish, Romanian, Germanic
Means "brave lion", derived from the Old German elements lewo "lion" (of Latin origin) and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This was the name of a 6th-century Frankish saint from Noblac who is the patron of prisoners and horses. The Normans brought this name to England, where it was used steadily through the Middle Ages, becoming even more common in the 20th century.
Leopold m German, Dutch, English, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Polish
Derived from the Old German elements liut "people" and bald "bold, brave". The spelling was altered due to association with Latin leo "lion". This name was common among German royalty, first with the Babenbergs and then the Habsburgs. Saint Leopold was a 12th-century Babenberg margrave of Austria, who is now considered the patron of that country. It was also borne by two Habsburg Holy Roman emperors, as well as three kings of Belgium. Since the 19th century this name has been occasionally used in England, originally in honour of Queen Victoria's uncle, a king of Belgium, after whom she named one of her sons. It was later used by James Joyce for the main character, Leopold Bloom, in his novel Ulysses (1922).
Lesław m Polish
Short form of Lechosław.
Lesława f Polish (Rare)
Short form of Lechosława.
Leszek m Polish
Diminutive of Lech.
Lew 2 m Polish (Rare)
Polish cognate of Lev 1.
Lidia f Polish, Italian, Spanish, Romanian, Georgian
Polish, Italian, Spanish, Romanian and Georgian form of Lydia.
Lidka f Polish
Polish diminutive of Lidia.
Liliana f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish, Czech, English
Latinate form of Lillian.
Lilianna f Polish, English (Modern)
Variant of Liliana.
Liwia f Polish
Polish form of Livia 1.
Longin m Polish, French (African)
Polish and French form of Longinus. As a French given name, it is most common in Francophone Africa.
Longina f Polish, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Longinus.
Lubomierz m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Lubomír.
Łucja f Polish
Polish form of Lucia.
Łucjan m Polish (Archaic)
Older Polish form of Lucianus.
Lucjan m Polish
Polish form of Lucianus.
Lucjusz m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Lucius.
Lucyna f Polish
Polish form of Lucina.
Ludmiła f Polish
Polish form of Ludmila.
Ludwik m Polish
Polish form of Ludwig.
Ludwika f Polish
Polish feminine form of Ludwig.
Luiza f Polish, Portuguese (Brazilian), Romanian
Polish, Portuguese and Romanian feminine form of Louis.
Łukasz m Polish
Polish form of Lucas (see Luke).
Maciej m Polish
Polish form of Matthias.
Magda f German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Hungarian, Croatian, Slovene, Romanian, Portuguese, Greek
Short form of Magdalena.
Magdalena f Polish, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Lithuanian, Spanish, Catalan, Occitan, Slovene, Czech, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Croatian, Serbian, Romanian, English
Latinate form of Magdalene.
Maja 1 f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Polish
Form of Maia 1 in various languages.
Maja 2 f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Slovene, German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Polish, Czech, Slovak
Diminutive of Maria.
Maksym m Ukrainian, Polish
Ukrainian and Polish form of Maximus.
Maksymilian m Polish
Polish form of Maximilianus (see Maximilian).
Małgorzata f Polish
Polish form of Margaret.
Małgosia f Polish
Diminutive of Małgorzata.
Malina 2 f Bulgarian, Serbian, Polish
Means "raspberry" in several Slavic languages.
Malwina f Polish
Polish form of Malvina.
Manfred m German, Dutch, Polish, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements man "man" and fridu "peace". It was borne by a 13th-century king of Sicily. Another notable bearer was Manfred von Richthofen (1892-1918), the World War I pilot known as the Red Baron. This is also the name of the main character in Lord Byron's drama Manfred (1817).
Marcel m French, Catalan, Romanian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Dutch, German
Form of Marcellus used in several languages. Notable bearers include the French author Marcel Proust (1871-1922) and the French artist Marcel Duchamp (1887-1968).
Marcela f Spanish, Portuguese, Polish, Romanian, Czech, Slovak
Feminine form of Marcellus.
Marceli m Polish
Polish form of Marcellus.
Marcelina f Polish, Spanish
Polish and Spanish feminine form of Marcellinus.
Marcin m Polish
Polish form of Martin.
Marek m Polish, Czech, Slovak, Estonian
Polish, Czech and Slovak form of Mark.
Maria f & m Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Occitan, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Faroese, Dutch, Frisian, Greek, Polish, Romanian, English, Finnish, Estonian, Corsican, Sardinian, Basque, Armenian, Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Biblical Greek, Biblical Latin, Old Church Slavic
Latin form of Greek Μαρία, from Hebrew מִרְיָם (see Mary). Maria is the usual form of the name in many European languages, as well as a secondary form in other languages such as English (where the common spelling is Mary). In some countries, for example Germany, Poland and Italy, Maria is occasionally used as a masculine middle name.... [more]
Marian 2 m Polish, Czech, Romanian
Polish, Czech and Romanian form of Marianus. It is sometimes used as a masculine form of Maria.
Marianna f Italian, Hungarian, Slovak, Polish, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Greek, English
Combination of Maria and Anna. It has been confused with the Roman name Mariana to the point that it is no longer easy to separate the two forms. It is sometimes also used as a Latinized form of Mariamne.
Marietta f Italian, Greek, Hungarian, German, Polish
Diminutive of Maria.
Marika f Czech, Slovak, Polish, Hungarian, Greek, Finnish, Estonian, Swedish, Georgian, Italian, German
Diminutive of Maria and other names beginning with Mari.
Mariola f Polish
Polish diminutive of Maria, now used independently.
Mariusz m Polish
Polish form of Marius.
Marlena f Polish, English
Latinate form of Marlene.
Marta f Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Slovak, German, Dutch, Romanian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian, Swedish, Icelandic, Latvian, Estonian, Georgian
Form of Martha used in various languages.
Martyna f Polish
Polish feminine form of Martinus (see Martin).
Maryla f Polish
Polish diminutive of Maria.
Maryna f Ukrainian, Belarusian, Polish
Ukrainian, Belarusian and Polish form of Marina.
Marysia f Polish
Polish diminutive of Maria.
Marzanna 1 f Polish
Probably a Polish variant of Marianna.
Marzena f Polish
Probably originally a Polish diminutive of Maria or Małgorzata.
Mateusz m Polish
Polish form of Matthew.
Matylda f Czech, Polish
Czech and Polish form of Matilda.
Maurycy m Polish
Polish form of Maurice.
Melania f Italian, Spanish, Polish, Romanian, Late Roman
Italian, Spanish, Polish and Romanian form of Melanie.
Metody m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Methodius.
Michał m Polish
Polish form of Michael.
Michalina f Polish
Polish feminine form of Michael.
Mieczysław m Polish
Derived from the Slavic element mechi "sword" combined with slava "glory".
Mieczysława f Polish
Feminine form of Mieczysław.
Mieszko m Polish
Diminutive of Mieczysław. This was the name of two rulers of Poland, including Mieszko I who converted the country to Christianity.
Mikołaj m Polish
Polish form of Nicholas.
Milena f Bulgarian, Czech, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Polish, Russian, Slovak, Italian
Feminine form of Milan. It began to be used in Italy in honour of Milena Vukotić (1847-1923), mother of Helen of Montenegro, the wife of the Italian king Victor Emmanuel III. In Italy it can also be considered a combination of Maria and Elena.
Milka 2 f Finnish, Polish
Finnish and Polish diminutive of Emilia.
Miłogost m Polish (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements milu meaning "gracious, dear" and gosti meaning "guest".
Miłosław m Polish (Rare)
Polish cognate of Miloslav.
Miłosz m Polish
Polish cognate of Miloš.
Mira 2 f Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Polish
Short form of names containing the Slavic element miru meaning "peace" or "world".
Mirek m Czech, Slovak, Polish
Diminutive of Miroslav and other names beginning with the Slavic element miru meaning "peace" or "world".
Miriam f Hebrew, English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Italian, Portuguese, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Biblical, Biblical Hebrew
Hebrew form of Mary. It is used in the Old Testament, where it belongs to the elder sister of Moses and Aaron. She watched over the infant Moses as the pharaoh's daughter drew him from the Nile. The name has long been popular among Jews, and it has been used as an English Christian name (alongside Mary) since the Protestant Reformation.
Miron 1 m Romanian, Russian, Polish
Romanian, Russian and Polish form of Myron.
Mirosław m Polish
Polish form of Miroslav.
Mirosława f Polish
Feminine form of Mirosław.
Monika f German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Estonian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Bulgarian, Lithuanian, Latvian
Form of Monica used in various languages.
Mścisław m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Mstislav.
Nadzieja f Polish
Polish cognate of Nadezhda, being the Polish word meaning "hope".
Narcyz m Polish
Polish form of Narcissus. This is also the Polish word for the narcissus flower.
Natalia f Polish, Italian, Spanish, Romanian, English, German, Dutch, Norwegian, Danish, Swedish, Greek, Georgian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Late Roman
Latinate form of Natalia (see Natalie).
Natalka f Ukrainian, Polish
Ukrainian and Polish diminutive of Natalia (see Natalie).
Natan m Hebrew, Biblical Hebrew, Polish
Hebrew and Polish form of Nathan.
Natasza f Polish
Polish form of Natasha.
Nikodem m Polish
Polish form of Nicodemus.
Nikola 2 f German, Polish, Czech, Slovak
German, Polish, Czech and Slovak feminine form of Nicholas. Note, in Czech this is also a masculine name (see Nikola 1).
Nina 1 f Russian, Italian, English, German, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Lithuanian, Dutch, Polish, Slovene, Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Short form of names that end in nina, such as Antonina or Giannina. It was imported to Western Europe from Russia and Italy in the 19th century. This name also nearly coincides with the Spanish word niña meaning "little girl".
Noemi f Italian, Czech, Polish, Romanian, German, Biblical Latin
Form of Naomi 1 in several languages.
Norbert m German, English, Dutch, French, Hungarian, Polish, Slovak, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements nord meaning "north" and beraht meaning "bright". This was the name of an 11th-century German saint who made many reforms within the Church.
Oktawia f Polish
Polish form of Octavia.
Oktawian m Polish
Polish form of Octavianus (see Octavian).
Oktawiusz m Polish
Polish form of Octavius.
Ola 2 f Polish
Polish short form of Aleksandra.
Olaf m Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Polish
From the Old Norse name Áleifr meaning "ancestor's descendant", derived from the elements anu "ancestor" and leif "inheritance, legacy". This was the name of five kings of Norway, including Saint Olaf (Olaf II).
Olek m Polish
Short form of Aleksander.
Olga f Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Hungarian, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Czech, Slovene, Serbian, Bulgarian, Greek
Russian form of the Old Norse name Helga. The 10th-century Saint Olga was the wife of Igor I, the ruler of Kievan Rus (a state based around the city of Kiev). Like her husband she was probably a Varangian, who were Norse people who settled in eastern Europe beginning in the 9th century. Following Igor's death she ruled as regent for her son Svyatoslav for 18 years. After she was baptized in Constantinople she attempted to convert her subjects to Christianity, though this goal was only achieved by her grandson Vladimir.
Olgierd m Polish
Polish form of Algirdas.
Olimpia f Italian, Spanish, Romanian, Polish (Rare), Hungarian (Rare)
Form of Olympias in several languages.
Oliwer m Polish
Polish form of Oliver.
Oliwia f Polish
Polish form of Olivia.
Oliwier m Polish
Polish form of Oliver.
Oskar m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Polish, Czech, Slovene
Form of Oscar in several languages. A famous bearer was Oskar Schindler (1908-1974), who is credited for saved over 1,000 Polish Jews during World War II.
Otylia f Polish
Polish form of Odilia.
Pati f Spanish, Polish
Diminutive of Patricia or Patrycja.
Patka f Polish, Slovak
Diminutive of Patrycja or Patrícia.
Patrycja f Polish
Polish feminine form of Patricius (see Patrick).
Patryk m Polish
Polish form of Patricius (see Patrick).
Paula f German, English, Finnish, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, Romanian, Hungarian, Polish, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Latvian, Croatian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Paulus (see Paul). This was the name of a 4th-century Roman saint who was a companion of Saint Jerome.
Paulina f Spanish, Portuguese, Polish, Swedish, Lithuanian, English, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Paulinus (see Paulino).
Paweł m Polish
Polish form of Paul.
Pelagia f Ancient Greek, Greek, Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Pelagius. This was the name of a few early saints, including a young 4th-century martyr who threw herself from a rooftop in Antioch rather than lose her virginity.
Piotr m Polish, Belarusian
Polish and Belarusian form of Peter.
Pola f Polish
Short form of Apolonia.
Przemek m Polish
Diminutive of Przemysław.
Przemko m Polish
Diminutive of Przemysław.
Przemo m Polish
Diminutive of Przemysław.
Przemysł m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Přemysl. This was the name of a 13th-century king of Poland.
Przemysław m Polish
Medieval variant of Przemysł, with the addition of the Slavic element slava.
Racław m Polish (Archaic)
Polish short form of Ratislav or Radosław.
Radek m Czech, Polish
Diminutive of Slavic names beginning with rad meaning "happy, willing".
Radomił m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Radomil.
Radomiła f Polish (Rare)
Polish feminine form of Radomil.
Radosław m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements rad "happy, willing" and slava "glory".
Radosława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Radosław.
Radzim m Polish (Rare)
Short form of Radzimierz.
Radzimierz m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Radomir.
Rafał m Polish
Polish form of Raphael.
Rajmund m Polish, Hungarian, Slovene
Polish, Hungarian and Slovene form of Raymond.
Regina f English, German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Lithuanian, Estonian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Late Roman
Means "queen" in Latin (or Italian). It was in use as a Christian name from early times, and was borne by a 2nd-century saint. In England it was used during the Middle Ages in honour of the Virgin Mary, and it was later revived in the 19th century. A city in Canada bears this name, in honour of Queen Victoria.
Remigiusz m Polish
Polish form of Remigius (see Rémy).
Renata f Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, German, Polish, Czech, Lithuanian, Croatian, Slovene, Romanian, Late Roman
Feminine form of Renatus.
Renia f Polish
Polish diminutive of Renata.
Robert m English, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Finnish, Estonian, Czech, Polish, Russian, Slovene, Croatian, Albanian, Romanian, Catalan, Germanic
From the Germanic name Hrodebert meaning "bright fame", derived from the elements hruod "fame" and beraht "bright". The Normans introduced this name to Britain, where it replaced the rare Old English cognate Hreodbeorht. It has been consistently among the most common English names from the 13th to 20th century. In the United States it was the most popular name for boys between 1924 and 1939 (and again in 1953).... [more]
Roch m French, Polish
French and Polish form of Rocco.
Roksana f Russian, Polish
Russian and Polish form of Roxana.
Roland m English, French, German, Swedish, Dutch, Hungarian, Polish, Slovak, Georgian, Medieval French
From the Old German elements hruod meaning "fame" and lant meaning "land", though some theories hold that the second element was originally nand meaning "brave".... [more]
Roman m Russian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Ukrainian, Slovene, Croatian, Estonian, German, English
From the Late Latin name Romanus meaning "Roman". This name was borne by several early saints.
Romana f Italian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Czech, Slovak, Late Roman
Feminine form of Romanus (see Roman).
Romuald m French, Polish, Germanic
From the Germanic elements hruom meaning "fame, glory" and walt meaning "power, authority". This was the name of an 11th-century Italian saint who founded the Camaldolese order.
Romualda f Lithuanian, Polish
Feminine form of Romuald.
Róża f Polish
Means "rose" in Polish. It is a cognate of Rosa 1.
Rozalia f Polish, Romanian
Polish and Romanian form of Rosalia.
Ruta f Polish, Latvian
Polish and Latvian form of Ruth 1.
Ryszard m Polish
Polish form of Richard.
Sabina f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish, Czech, Slovene, Russian, Croatian, Swedish, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Sabinus, a Roman cognomen meaning "a Sabine" in Latin. The Sabines were an ancient people who lived in central Italy, their lands eventually taken over by the Romans after several wars. According to legend, the Romans abducted several Sabine women during a raid, and when the men came to rescue them, the women were able to make peace between the two groups. This name was borne by several early saints.
Salomea f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Salome.
Samanta f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Latvian, Polish
Variant of Samantha used in several languages.
Samuel m English, French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Portuguese, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Jewish, Biblical
From the Hebrew name שְׁמוּאֵל (Shemu'el) meaning "name of God", from the roots שֵׁם (shem) meaning "name" and אֵל ('el) meaning "God". Other interpretations have the first root being שָׁמַע (shama') meaning "to hear" leading to a meaning of "God has heard". As told in the Books of Samuel in the Old Testament, Samuel was the last of the ruling judges. He led the Israelites during a period of domination by the Philistines, who were ultimately defeated in battle at Mizpah. Later he anointed Saul to be the first king of Israel, and even later anointed his successor David.... [more]
Sandra f Italian, English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Czech, Romanian
Short form of Alessandra. It was introduced to the English-speaking world by author George Meredith, who used it for the heroine in his novel Emilia in England (1864) and the reissued version Sandra Belloni (1887). A famous bearer is the American actress Sandra Bullock (1964-).
Sara f Greek, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Romanian, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, German, French, Dutch, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Albanian, Macedonian, Polish, English, Hebrew, Arabic, Persian, Bosnian, Biblical Greek
Form of Sarah used in various languages.
Sebastian m German, English, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Polish, Finnish, Romanian, Czech
From the Latin name Sebastianus, which meant "from Sebaste". Sebaste was the name a town in Asia Minor, its name deriving from Greek σεβαστός (sebastos) meaning "venerable" (a translation of Latin Augustus, the title of the Roman emperors). According to Christian tradition, Saint Sebastian was a 3rd-century Roman soldier martyred during the persecutions of the emperor Diocletian. After he was discovered to be a Christian, he was tied to a stake and shot with arrows. This however did not kill him. Saint Irene of Rome healed him and he returned to personally admonish Diocletian, whereupon the emperor had him beaten to death.... [more]
Serafin m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Seraphinus (see Seraphina).
Serafina f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese (Rare), Polish (Rare)
Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Polish form of Seraphina.
Sergiusz m Polish
Polish form of Sergius.
Seweryn m Polish
Polish form of Severinus.
Seweryna f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Severina.
Siemowit m Polish (Archaic)
Older form of Ziemowit.
Sławomir m Polish
Derived from the Slavic element slava meaning "glory" combined with meru meaning "great, famous" or miru meaning "peace, world".
Sławomira f Polish
Polish feminine form of Sławomir.
Sobiesław m Polish (Rare)
Derived from Slavic elements, possibly sebe meaning "for oneself", combined with slava meaning "glory". This name (in the Czech form Soběslav) was borne by two 12th-century dukes of Bohemia.
Sobiesława f Polish (Rare)
Polish feminine form of Sobiesław.
Sonia f English, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish
Variant of Sonya.
Stanisław m Polish
Polish form of Stanislav. Two kings of Poland have borne this name.
Stanisława f Polish
Feminine form of Stanisław.
Stasia f Polish
Diminutive of Stanisława or Anastazja.
Stefan m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Polish, Bulgarian, Serbian, Macedonian
Form of Stephen used in several languages.
Stefania f Italian, Polish, Greek
Italian, Polish and Greek feminine form of Stephen.
Stefcia f Polish
Diminutive of Stefania.
Stefek m Polish
Polish diminutive of Stefan.
Sulisław m Polish (Archaic)
From an old Slavic name that was derived from an element meaning "good" combined with slava "glory".
Świętomierz m Polish (Archaic)
Derived from the Slavic elements svetu "blessed, holy" and miru "peace, world".
Świętopełk m Polish (Archaic)
Polish form of Svatopluk.
Świętosław m Polish (Archaic)
Polish form of Svyatoslav.
Sybilla f Polish, Late Roman
Polish form and Latin variant of Sibylla.
Sylwester m Polish
Polish form of Silvester.
Sylwia f Polish
Polish form of Silvia.
Szczepan m Polish
Polish form of Stephen.
Szczęsny m Polish (Archaic)
Means "lucky, successful, happy" in Polish, a vernacular form of Felix.
Szymon m Polish
Polish form of Simon 1.
Tadeusz m Polish
Polish form of Thaddeus. This name is borne by Tadeusz Soplica, the title character in Adam Mickiewicz's epic poem Pan Tadeusz (1834), which is considered to be the national epic of Poland.
Tamara f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Hungarian, English, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Lithuanian, Georgian
Russian form of Tamar. Russian performers such as Tamara Karsavina (1885-1978), Tamara Drasin (1905-1943), Tamara Geva (1907-1997) and Tamara Toumanova (1919-1996) introduced it to the English-speaking world. It rapidly grew in popularity in the United States starting in 1957. Another famous bearer was the Polish cubist painter Tamara de Lempicka (1898-1980).
Tatiana f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, French, Slovak, Polish, Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Greek, Georgian, English, Russian, Bulgarian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of the Roman name Tatianus, a derivative of the Roman name Tatius. This was the name of a 3rd-century saint who was martyred in Rome under the emperor Alexander Severus. She was especially venerated in Orthodox Christianity, and the name has been common in Russia (as Татьяна) and Eastern Europe. It was not regularly used in the English-speaking world until the 1980s.
Tekla f Swedish, Latvian, Georgian, Hungarian, Polish (Archaic)
Form of Thekla in several languages.
Teodor m Romanian, Bulgarian, Slovak, Czech, Polish, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Swedish, Norwegian
Form of Theodore used in various languages.
Teodora f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian, Swedish
Feminine form of Theodoros (see Theodore).
Teodozja f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Theodosia.
Teofil m Romanian, Polish
Romanian and Polish form of Theophilus.
Teofila f Italian (Rare), Polish (Rare)
Italian and Polish feminine form of Theophilus.
Teresa f Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Catalan, Polish, Lithuanian, Finnish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, English
Form of Theresa used in several languages. Saint Teresa of Ávila was a 16th-century Spanish nun who reformed the Carmelite monasteries and wrote several spiritual books. It was also borne by the Albanian missionary Saint Teresa of Calcutta (1910-1997), better known as Mother Teresa, who worked with the poor in India. She adopted the name in honour of the French saint Thérèse of Lisieux, who is the patron of missionaries.
Tobiasz m Polish
Polish form of Tobias.
Tola 2 f Polish
Diminutive of names containing to, such as Antonina.
Tomasz m Polish
Polish form of Thomas.
Tomek m Polish
Diminutive of Tomasz.
Tosia f Polish
Polish diminutive of Antonina.
Tymek m Polish
Diminutive of Tymoteusz.
Tymon m Polish
Polish form of Timon.
Tymoteusz m Polish
Polish form of Timothy.
Tytus m Polish
Polish form of Titus.
Ula f Polish, Slovene
Diminutive of Urszula (Polish) or Uršula (Slovene).
Urban m Swedish, German, Slovene, Polish, Biblical
From the Latin name Urbanus meaning "city dweller". This name is mentioned briefly in one of Paul's epistles in the New Testament. It was subsequently borne by eight popes.
Uriasz m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Uriah.
Urszula f Polish
Polish form of Ursula.
Wacław m Polish
Polish form of Václav.
Wacława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Wacław.
Waldek m Polish
Polish diminutive of Waldemar.
Waldemar m German, Polish, Germanic
From the Old German elements walt "power, authority" and mari "famous", also used as a translation of the Slavic cognate Vladimir.
Walenty m Polish
Polish form of Valentinus (see Valentine 1).
Walentyna f Polish
Polish form of Valentina.
Waleria f Polish
Polish form of Valeria.
Walerian m Polish
Polish form of Valerianus (see Valerian).
Walery m Polish
Polish form of Valerius.
Walter m English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Polish, Italian, Germanic
From the Germanic name Waltheri meaning "power of the army", from the elements walt "power, authority" and heri "army". In medieval German tales (notably Waltharius by Ekkehard of Saint Gall) Walter of Aquitaine is a heroic king of the Visigoths. The name was also borne by an 11th-century French saint, Walter of Pontoise. The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Wealdhere.... [more]
Wanda f Polish, English, German, French
Possibly from a Germanic name meaning "a Wend", referring to the Slavic people who inhabited eastern Germany. In Polish legends this was the name of the daughter of King Krak, the legendary founder of Krakow. It was introduced to the English-speaking world by the author Ouida, who used it for the heroine in her novel Wanda (1883).
Wanesa f Polish (Modern)
Polish form of Vanessa.
Wanessa f Polish (Modern)
Polish form of Vanessa.
Warcisław m Polish (Archaic)
Polish form of Vratislav. This was the name of several dukes of Pomerania.
Wawrzyniec m Polish
Polish form of Laurentius (see Laurence 1).
Wera f Polish
Polish form of Vera 1 or a short form of Weronika.
Weronika f Polish, Sorbian
Polish and Sorbian form of Veronica.
Więcesław m Polish (Archaic)
Older Polish form of Václav.
Wielisław m Polish (Rare)
From an old Slavic name meaning "great glory".
Wiesław m Polish
Short form of Wielisław.
Wiesława f Polish
Feminine form of Wielisław.
Wiktor m Polish
Polish form of Victor.
Wiktoria f Polish
Polish form of Victoria.
Wilhelm m German, Polish, Germanic
German cognate of William. This was the name of two German emperors. It was also the middle name of several philosophers from Germany: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831), Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (1844-1900), and Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz (1646-1716), who was also a notable mathematician.
Wincenty m Polish
Polish form of Vincent.
Wiola f Polish
Polish form of Viola.
Wioleta f Polish
Polish form of Violet.
Wioletta f Polish
Polish form of Violet.
Wisław m Polish (Rare)
Short form of Wielisław.
Wisława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Wielisław.
Wit m Polish
Polish form of Vitus.
Witek m Polish
Diminutive of Witold or Wit.
Witołd m Polish (Archaic)
Polish variant of Witold.
Witold m Polish
Polish form of Vytautas. Alternatively it could be derived from the Old German name Widald.
Władek m Polish
Diminutive of Władysław.
Władysław m Polish
Polish cognate of Vladislav. This was the name of four kings of Poland.
Władysława f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Władysław.
Włodek m Polish
Diminutive of Włodzimierz.
Włodzimierz m Polish
Polish cognate of Vladimir.
Włodzisław m Polish (Archaic)
Polish cognate of Vladislav.
Wojciech m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements voji "warrior, soldier" and tekha "solace, comfort, joy". Saint Wojciech (also known by the Czech form of his name Vojtěch or his adopted name Adalbert) was a Bohemian missionary to Hungary, Poland and Prussia, where he was martyred in the 10th century.
Wojciecha f Polish (Rare)
Feminine form of Wojciech.
Wojsław m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Vojislav.
Wojtek m Polish
Diminutive of Wojciech.
Zachariasz m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Zechariah and Zacharias.
Żaklina f Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Jacqueline.
Żaneta f Polish
Polish form of Jeannette.
Zawisza m Polish (Archaic)
Polish cognate of Záviš.
Zbigniew m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements zbyti "to dispel" and gnyevu "anger".
Zdzisław m Polish
Derived from the Slavic elements zidati "build" and slava "glory".
Zdzisława f Polish
Feminine form of Zdzisław.
Zenon m Ancient Greek, Polish
Ancient Greek form of Zeno, as well as the modern Polish form.
Ziemowit m Polish
From an old Slavic name derived from the elements sem "family" and vit "lord, master". This was the name of a legendary Piast prince of Poland. It was also borne by several other Piast rulers.
Zofia f Polish
Polish form of Sophia.
Zosia f Polish
Diminutive of Zofia.
Zula 1 f Polish (Rare)
Polish diminutive of Zuzanna.
Zuza f Slovak, Polish
Slovak and Polish diminutive of Susanna.
Zuzanna f Polish, Latvian (Rare)
Polish and Latvian form of Susanna.
Zuzia f Polish
Polish diminutive of Zuzanna.
Zygfryd m Polish
Polish form of Siegfried.
Zygmunt m Polish
Polish form of Sigmund.
Zyta f Polish
Possibly a Polish form of Zita 1, or possibly a short form of Felicyta.